Savoia-Marchetti S. 65 was a Savoia Marchetti 1929, which was developed for racing which is provided a float plane. With a new technical concept, the Schneider should have won the Trophy and the price to be brought back to Italy. One of the two prototypes crashed shortly after the first Start, the Pilot Tommaso Dal Molin was killed. The project was abandoned after that.
GeschichteNach the British victory in the Schneider Trophy in 1927, the Italian aircraft manufacturers Macchi, Piaggio, Fiat, and SIAI the construction of new aircraft, in order to bring the price to Italy has decided. The designer Alessandro Marchetti, worked with the S. 65 is a completely new concept for a racing seaplane. The Savoy had two in a row, in a nacelle mounted engines, each with a pull propeller and a push propeller, wherein the Pilot between the two engines sat. This constructive design of the aircraft was almost completely a of Dornier in October 1928 at the ILA in Berlin, the presented concept. Only the tail of the S. 65 had minor differences to the one shown Dornier model.Günter Frost; Karl Kössler, Volker Koos: Dornier - from the beginnings to 1945. HEEL Verlag, 2010, p. 193, The engines of the s. 65 were two Isotta Fraschini Asso 2 500RI, the generated at a speed of 3000 min−1 1050 HP. The plane was mostly made of metal-reinforced wood.Already in the construction phase, difficulties with the mounting of the fuel tank and the Oil cooler. To solve these problems, the S. 65 was tested in July 1929 on the ground. The struts between the floats proved to be too weak; the tail had to be improved and the Connections of wood and metal frame have been revised, so that the Experiments had to be set up in January 1930.The first test flight was on 18. January, 1930, by Tommaso Dal Molin conducted. The machine sped over the water and flew to the Start about 300 m far. At a height of 25 m, and approx. 200 km/h, the machine suddenly plunged almost vertically into the water. The test pilot was thrown from the machine and was killed instantly.Although the cause of the accident was cleared never. But probably the two Isotta Fraschini Asso ran 2 500RI not in sync, so that when you Accelerate a forward inclination set, which could at some point be no longer compensated for by the tail. As this failed due to the Congestion, rushed to the p. 65 almost vertically into the water. The project was discontinued then, and the second p. 65 in the Museum of the SIAI, where it stood until 1939.
The S. 65 was a low-wing monoplane, and with a launch mass of 3300 kg is one of the most difficult aircraft, which had been built by the Savoia in the meantime. The wings themselves were made of reinforced wood and stress Points reinforced with metal. The Pilot sat in an open Cockpit with a windshield in a nacelle between the two engines, which later turned out to be very disadvantageous. The floats of the machine are made of metal, and the stabilizer made of wood.
