The history of the progettoFu designed, in the yards of Sesto Calende in the 1920's from ing. Raffaele Conflenti to create a model to subscribe to the fifth edition of the Coppa Schneider, the competition that would be held on August 11, 1921 on the circuit of Venice. The aircraft was to be presented at the Meeting of Munich and tested with satisfactory results by the pilots Magdalene and Jannello, then it was registered for the Cup Schneider with the race number 19, but in the list of participants was actually the number 17; this aircraft was intended for the pilot Umberto Maddalena. The aircraft before transfer to Venice for the race of the Coppa Schneider, the 28 July 1920 just taken off from the airport of S. Anna, probably one of the stall-the wing, the joint above Stresa, you inabissava in the waters of the lake Lago Maggiore; in the incident lost their lives in the pilot Gianni of the Male and the flight engineer, Peter, Grippa, whose bodies were never found.
TecnicaL'S. 22 was a single-seat twin-engined biplane seaplane, built in wood covered with canvas. It was the first example of the aircraft with multiple installation of the motors for a seaplane race designed for the cup Schneider. This type of installation design and engineering, in subsequent years, it was widely used by the SIAI then SIAI-Marchetti.
CellulaLa the fuselage to the monohull was wide and would accommodate up to 8 passengers, which was made for the next passenger version, the S. 24. The open-air places for the two members of the crew were parallel and placed just next to the castle of the engines, protected by a small windshield.
MotoriAveva two engines Isotta Fraschini V. 6 6-cylinder in-line, air cooled,, seats in tandem configuration, the traction-pusher, who moved two propellers variant of the wood with a spinner wire. The two engines with the cowling were placed under the wing and over the fuselage, firmly held in place by 8 metal framed reels also.
Systems and impiantiAveva two small floats at the ends of the wings and two ailerons on the wings lower the wings had the same width and design, with the upper wing in one piece. Had two struts and the vertical wing tip and two struts and thinner at mid-span with bracing cables arranged in an X. The radiators of the engines were external, placed laterally and perpendicular to the middle of the tandem engine.
