The Korean pine (Pinus koraiensis, Syn. Pinus cembra var. mandshurica, Mast., Pinus mandshurica Rupr.) is an Asian plant of the genus of the pine (Pinus). The Conifer is the dominant species in the Korean pine-deciduous mixed forest, but also occurs in Pure stands. The maximum age is specified with 500 years.
HabitusDie Korean pine is a dense benadelter tree with a straight trunk that can reach a maximum height of 40 meters and a diameter at breast height of 1.6 meters. The crown of older trees is flattened due to the strong branching strong. Younger trees have a more conical shape.
Buds and needle nThe oblong-egg-shaped winter buds are bright red-brown and only slightly hardened. The needles stand too fifth at short shoots and are with a diameter of about a Millimeter, is relatively thick. Their length varies between six and twelve inches, you are on average eight-inches long. The triangular needle cross-section is a vascular bundles and three resin ducts, one per corner, are cut. On the two sides for six to eight light blue gap opening series. The needle top has no slit openings. The needles usually remain three, less often four to five years on the tree.
Blossoms, cones and SamenDie Korean pine is monoecious-dioecious (monoecious). In the female flower cones of the three colour variants can be distinguished. The purple color variant has strongly colored seed scales, the particles are with whitish Wax-covered. The green colour variant has just shed a little colored Seeds. In the case of the red-green color variant, the inflorescences of 2 to 2.5 inches long and shoots agitator permanent groups of up to 10 at the Ends of young. The male cones are elliptical-shaped and reddish-yellow in colour. They are, instead of benadelten short shoots clustered at the base of young long shoots and are fairly evenly distributed across the crown. The oblong-egg-shaped cones are initially green and turn to a maturity greenish brown. You are in the second year after pollination, Mature, and 10 to 15 centimetres, sometimes up to 20 centimeters long and have a diameter of 5 to 10 centimeters. On average, they weigh-in at the maturity of 133 grams. The cone scales are rhombic and tapering to the tip. The little pronounced Apex is rolled slightly to the outside. At the base of each seed scale are two (rarely only one) seeds from 12 to 16 mm in length and 7 to 10 millimeters in diameter. No, the bog pine forms the larger seeds. The brown seeds are ovate, three-edged, and have a smooth surface. The thousand-grain weight is around 500 grams. The propagation is done in large part by the Nutcracker (Nucifraga caryocatactes). The seedlings of form 10 to 16 seed leaves (cotyledons). These cotyledons are 3.8 to 5 centimeters long and 1.5 millimeters wide.
BorkeDie bark is initially smooth and gray-brown, later longitudinally fissured. It is the irregular shell are formed - to shed-shaped plates. These plates are repelled, you are making a younger, reddish-brown bark layer. The average tannin content of the bark is 5.57 %. Young shoots have a dense, yellow-brown to reddish-brown pubescence.
Root system the Korean pine is a shallow, rooted but on a deeper level than the associated spruce and fir species. The main root is rarely longer than 30 cm, branched, but very intense. It is vigorous and relatively flachstr oak side be formed roots, the rich, even in favorable soil, only 0.6 to 0.7 conditions, usually, rarely up to 1 Meter deep. Around 80 to 90 % of the total root mass is in the upper 50 centimeters. The number of surface roots increases with the depth of the soil. The main root can be adjusted in the case of stark, poorly ventilated and vernäßten substantial death rates. The species is mycorrhizal partnerships with various thick röhrlingen (Boletus) and lubrication röhrlingen (Suillus).
HolzDas reddish brown heartwood surrounded by a yellowish brown sapwood. The Transitions between Late and early wood is gradually. The uniformly textured wood is noticeable by its strong resin smell. It is good to dry, work a little, is quite durable, easy to work and nail. In the air-dried wood 53,72% Cellulose and 26,91% Lignin.
Dissemination and StandortDas area of distribution extends from the coastal area of northeast China, North to Russia, South to Korea and across the sea to Japan. In China the species occurs in the hill country of Heilongjiang, the Changbai mountains and in the Small ulanhot-mountains, of course. In Russia it occurs mainly in coastal mountain ranges such as the Sichote-Alin mountain range and on the South side of the Bureinskij mountains. In Korea, the Incidence is concentrated in the Jingang mountains and the southern slope of the Changbai mountains. The Occurrences in Japan are in the mountains in the middle of Honshū and the island of Shikoku. The natural distribution area has an East-West extension of approximately 700 km and a North-South distance of around 900 kilometers.The Korean pine is a tree species of the Bergwalds. In the natural area of distribution the climate of monsoon rains, it is determined that high humidity is one of the important climatic conditions. The annual amount of precipitation varies depending on the location, between 400 and 1,200 mm. Closed-end funds can be found depending on the location in heights of 300 to 1300 meters, single trees, even up to 1,650 meters. There is a certain setting on the brown is earth and weak podzolic initialized brown earth, with the best growth performance in well-ventilated, nutrient-rich and deep soils can be achieved. The species grows in a relatively wide temperature range, and conditions under commitment, the Moisture largely frost-hardy.Pure stands are rare. Often stocks with Acer mono, Betula costata, the Manchurian ash (Fraxinus mandshurica), Mongolian oak (Quercus mongolica), the Armur-Linde (Tilia amurensis), Tilia mandshurica, Ulmus laciniata, Ulmus propinqua, and East Siberian fir (Abies nephrolepis) and the Ajan spruce (Picea jezoensis) is formed, wherein the Korean pine is the dominant tree species are Mixed. In the moist and warm Parts of the southern distribution area, the species also occurs together with the Manchurian fir (Abies holophylla), heart-leaved hornbeam (Carpinus cordata), the Baumaralie (Kalopanax septemlobus) and Sorbus alnifolia. In the mountain valleys of Acer mandshuricum, Acer triflorum, Juglans mandshurica, and the Amur cork tree (Phellodendron amurense) as a mixed tree species.The Korean pine is managed in the IUCN Red list as not at risk ("Lower Risk/Least Concern"). It is noted, however, that a new revision of the hazard is necessary.
Diseases and pests stock dangerous dente fungal diseases occur only rarely. Fungi of the genera Fusarium, Pythium and Rhizoctonia to be fought in nurseries on a regular basis with fungicides. Cronartium ribicola, the causative agent of the strobe grate was registered for the first time in 1958. It attacks mainly trees under 20 years of age. In South Korea stocks are affected over an area of around 1,300 hectares of this pathogen. Cenangium ferruginosum, the causative agent of pine drive dying, as well as Lophodermium maximum, Lophodermium nitens, and Lophodermium pini-pumilae which cause the jaw schütte, are of minor importance. Economic importance can be attributed to the pine trees-brown Lingzhi (Phaeolus schweinitzii), and the pine fire fungus (Phellinus pini), which call for an intense root and stock rot,.The weevil Pissodes nitidus is considerable damage to reforestation. The mole crickets Grillotalpa africana and Grillotalpa unispina eat the roots and thus damage especially seedlings. The borer Dioryctria abietella and Dioryctria auranticella damage the tips of the shoots and cones. The wood is mainly affected by the six-toothed pine bark beetle (Ips acuminatus), the twelve-toothed pine bark beetle (Ips sexdentatus), Ips subelongatus, to the engraver (Pityogenes chalcographus), as well as various buck species of beetle of the genus Acanthocinus, Monochamus and Tetropium.
NutzungDas wood used in the construction industry. It is used for the production of doors, Windows, roof constructions, floors, and furniture. It is also suitable for the production of pulp and paper. Reduced economic significance of the use of the resin, the extraction of tannins from the bark and the use of the needle oil for cosmetics. The species is regionally grown for its oleaginous and edible seed. It is planted with rare as a Park tree.
SystematikDie Korean pine are mapped within the genus of pine (Pinus) of section Quinquefoliae and the Subsektion Strobus. As a closely related species, the dwarf-pine (Pinus pumila) and the Siberian pine (Pinus sibirica).
