it
Diagonal:1, Size:3
[1]Salini Impregilo is an Italian group operating in the field of construction and engineering; is active in the construction of dams, hydroelectric plants, hydraulic works, railways and subways, airports and motorways, civil and industrial construction.According to some data, in the first place in the ranking of the main Italian firms operating in the esteroRapporto ANCE 2015 on the presence of Italian construction companies in the world http://www.ance.it/docs/docDownload.aspx?id=27996Rapporto ANCE 2013 on the presence of Italian construction firms in the world StoriaIl Group Salini Impregilo is the result of the merger by incorporation of Salini SpA into Impregilo SpA, with effect from 1 January 2014Il Sole 24 Ore, June 25, 2013, the "Yes to a merger between Impregilo and Salini".
[1]Salini Impregilo is an Italian group operating in the field of construction and engineering; is active in the construction of dams, hydroelectric plants, hydraulic works, railways and subways, airports and motorways, civil and industrial construction.According to some data, in the first place in the ranking of the main Italian firms operating in the esteroRapporto ANCE 2015 on the presence of Italian construction companies in the world http://www.ance.it/docs/docDownload.aspx?id=27996Rapporto ANCE 2013 on the presence of Italian construction firms in the world StoriaIl Group Salini Impregilo is the result of the merger by incorporation of Salini SpA into Impregilo SpA, with effect from 1 January 2014Il Sole 24 Ore, June 25, 2013, the "Yes to a merger between Impregilo and Salini".
[2]The project, started in 2011 with the entry of Saline in the share capital of Impregilo and finds its fundamental reason in the goal of merging the two realities and with the vocation internazionaleComunicato print Salini Impregilo “Stipulated the deed of merger by incorporation of Salini S.p.A. in Impregilo spa”.
Diagonal:2, Size:3
[12]In that period there appeared rumors of a possible merger between Impregilo and Astaldi group S. p.a..
[12]In that period there appeared rumors of a possible merger between Impregilo and Astaldi group S. p.a..
[14]History of SaliniIl Group Salini was born in Rome in 1936, when the founder of the family, Peter, undertakes the task of the manufacturer.In 2009, Salini became the third Italian group in the construction sector, following the acquisition of Todini Costruzioni Generali spa, (first 60% and then 70%).
Diagonal:3, Size:4
[17]July: l ;the shareholders ' Meeting of Impregilo, also thanks to the collection of proxies of small shareholders favourable to the project, Salini, the resolution on the revocation of directors of Impregilo in office.
[19]Appointed chief executive officer, Pietro Salini, and Chairman Claudio Costamagna.
[20]September: the Board of Directors of Impregilo start the revival of industrial activity, implementing the Strategic Agreement with Salini to create commercial synergies.
[21]February: Salini S.p.A. launches a Takeover bid on the totality of the ordinary shares of Impregilo it did not already own of 4.00 euro per share.
Diagonal:4, Size:4
[23]June: following the approval of the respective boards of directors, on June 24, is formalized by means of the press the project of merger by incorporation of Salini into Impregilo.
[24]The name of the new industrial group from January 2014 becomes ‘ ;Salini Impregilo ; that also changes the brand and remains listed on the stock exchange.Merger by incorporation of Salini into Impregilo.
[25]Available the plan of Merger January: the birth of the Group Salini Impregilo.
[25]Available the plan of Merger January: the birth of the Group Salini Impregilo.
Diagonal:5, Size:5
[61]Iceland, the Dam of KárahnjúkavirkjunL'hydroelectric plant of Kárahnjúkavirkjun, located about 90 km south-west from the town of Egilsstadir, in the eastern region of the country, is currently the most important work carried out in Iceland.A system of three dams collects the waters of the glacier river Jokulsa a From in the invaded Halslòn and the pipe, through 73 km of underground pipeline to an underground powerhouse of 690 MW of total capacity.The construction of the whole web site has been created in the period 2003-2009.
[62]Panama, Expansion of the Panama Canal - Third Set of ChiuseNel the second half of 2009 has been signed between the Authorities of the Panama Canal and the Consortium Grupo Unido por el Canal”, composed among others by the group, the agreement for the award of the tender for the construction of a new system of locks as part of the project for the expansion of the canal.
[63]The work should be completed by the end of 2014, in the centenary year of the opening of the Panama Canal.2014: The jobs are at risk one stop for financial problems and a dispute between the consortium of the builders and the panamanian authorities on costs in excess of 1.6 billion dollars.
[63]The work should be completed by the end of 2014, in the centenary year of the opening of the Panama Canal.2014: The jobs are at risk one stop for financial problems and a dispute between the consortium of the builders and the panamanian authorities on costs in excess of 1.6 billion dollars.
[65]For the consortium of manufacturers (in addition to the Italian Salini Impregilo, even by spain's Sacyr Vallehermoso, Somague (Portugal), Jan de Nul (Belgium) and panama's Constructora Urbana) the excessive costs were due to unforeseen events that have occurred during the construction, a normal thing for this type of projects.Impregilo, the work on widening the Channel of Panama to risk stop for litigation costs in excess of August comes the agreement between the ACP (Canal Authority of Panama) and the GUPC (Grupo Unido por el Canal), and is signed by the variation of the contract for co-financing necessary for the completion of the project.
