en
Diagonal:1, Size:2
[6]In January 2014 it merged with Salini to form Salini Impregilo.
[7]OperationsSalini Impregilo undertake the following types of works: dams, hydroelectric power plants, railways, subterranean projects, undergrounds, bridges, viaducts, highways, roads, ports, airports and prestigious residential and office complexes.Projects: works Salini Impregilo The company operates in more than 50 countries on 5 continents with 34,400 employees.
Diagonal:2, Size:4
[3]It is listed on the Milan Stock Exchange.
[2]The company was formally founded in 1959 as Impregilo S.p.A. and, through mergers, has grown to become the largest Italian engineering and general contractor group and a global player in the construction sector, focusing on complex and large civil engineering projects.
[1]Salini Impregilo S.p.A. () is an Italian industrial group specialised in the construction and civil engineering business headquartered in Milan.
[2]The company was formally founded in 1959 as Impregilo S.p.A. and, through mergers, has grown to become the largest Italian engineering and general contractor group and a global player in the construction sector, focusing on complex and large civil engineering projects.
Diagonal:3, Size:2
[6]In January 2014 it merged with Salini to form Salini Impregilo.
[4]It is directed by Pietro Salini.
Diagonal:4, Size:3
[8]It is organised into four businesse areas: Dams, hydroelectric plants and hydraulic works; Motorways and airports; Railways and undergrounds; Civil and industrial buildings.Projects: expertise Salini Impregilo Major projectsProjects in which Salini Impregilo has been involved include buildings, public utilities, motorways, underground works, airports, water supply systems, waste disposals, hospitals and land development.
[9]Some major examples include: Salini Impregilo, together with the Spanish company Sacyr Vallehermoso and other two companies (Belgian Jan de Nul and Panamanian Cusa), won the tender for the expansion of the Panama Canal, due to be completed in 2014.
[10]Panama Canal Announces "Best Value" Proposal for New Set of Locks Expansion ContractSalini Impregilo is also working on the Gotthard Base Tunnel, which is expected to be completed in 2015.
