Consolida regalisDer a common Field Larkspur (Consolida regalis, Syn.: Delphinium consolida), also Acker-knight porn or Field Larkspur, is a species of the genus of the field knight spur (Consolida) in the Buttercup family (Ranunculaceae).
Description of the Ordinary Field Larkspur, is an annual herbaceous Plant, which reaches stature heights of 20 to 50 centimeters. The alternating leaves are up to multiple three-piece divided in 1 mm width, rulers, tip. The bloom time is enough from may to August. In a racemose Inflorescence of five to eight flowers, each about bracts, which are shorter stems than flowers. The blue-violet flowers have a simple, about 2 to 4 inches long and the horizontal or top of the spur, which is formed from two fused nectar leaves show. There is only one carpel is present. The individual bald hair follicle fruit has a length of about 2 inches and contains many seeds. The number of chromosomes is the same for both European sub-species is 2n = 16.
Ecological Eder-a common Field Larkspur is a summer or winter annual, and in the latter case, then as a rosette plant for a longer period.Flowers biologically, it is in front of the ännliche "bluebells with sticky Pollen". The nectar funnel has a bumblebee head large entrance. The nectar is only long-tongued bumblebees and other insects with at least 15 mm long proboscis accessible. Pistil and Stamens bend to maturity, to the top. The blue coloring of the flowers is caused by the anthocyanin Delphinidin.The fruit ripens from August to September. This causes self-propagation of the seed as desiccation spreader, in addition, it is a wind-faithful. The seeds are cold germinators.
Occurring a common Field Larkspur was widespread in Central Europe but has become common due to increased use of herbicides and intensive soil cultivation is rare. In Germany it is classified in the Red list of threatened species as endangered.A common Field Larkspur required nutrient cereal fields, Wegsäume rich, dry places. He also thrives on calcareous soil.
UnterartenIn Europe two sub-species vorJaakko Jalas, Juha Suominen: Atlas florae europaeae. Band 8 (Nymphaeaceae to Ranunculaceae). Page 72-73, Helsinki 1989. ISBN 951-9108-07-6:
Toxicity all parts of the plant are poisonous, especially the seeds. The seeds contain up to 1.4 % of alkaloids, mainly Lycoctonin,Delcosin and Delsonin.The effect is similar to the Aconitine, but weaker. Earlier, larger amounts of intoxication at the time of recording phenomena occurred in cattle. Due to the strong decline in Plant poisonings are today hardly still possible.
Use the earlier of the alkaloid were used on poor flowers as a remedy. Since, to date, the evidence for efficacy of lack, is no longer the drug as a Drug in common use.Often found dried flowers because of their beautiful blue color but as a jewelry drug, particularly in the bladder and the Nierentees and also in blends for other indications.
