The airship USSR-W6 "Ossoawiachim" ( ) was the biggest success of the Soviet Lighter when air fleet and also the largest in the USSR (Soviet Union) ever built airship. In October, 1937, it burst with a duration of 130 hours and 27 minutes and the duration of the travel record for air ships of all classes. OSSOAWIACHIM was the Name of the "society for the promotion of defense, aviation and chemistry".Aviation week & space technology-January 2010, p. 54-55, The failed rescue over the Soviet airship travel only contradictory, few, some, and hardly verifiable information available. This is due to the of the Soviet Union, driven to secrecy, revealed virtually no information, and on the other hand on the Propaganda, which applied often large projects, whose realization, however, in the dark. Therefore, the information in this article is critical.
Formation, not least through the visits of large airships, like the Norge and LZ 127 "count Zeppelin" grew also in the Soviet Union the desire to build large airships. One invited therefore the Italian airship designer Umberto Nobile, in the Soviet Union, the Luftschiffbau. This decision was approved by Stalin himself, while Mussolini, good Propaganda for Italy, agreed to hoping for that.Nobile moved in may 1932 to Moscow. He was there from the beginning. The boatyard had a beginning, neither an air-ship hall, workshops or Material. Nobile was transferred the training of the future Soviet air boatmen and technicians. The design and construction of the airship began after many hurdles in the summer of 1933.As for Stalin and the Soviet Union is common, not have been given such projects alone in the responsibility of a foreigner. Independently of Nobile Soviet technicians built in August 1934, a semi-rigid airship with a volume of 9150 m3. It is the designation W7.according to a source, "The Great airships" was W7 a 38 000 m3-vessel, which was built 1934 by Trojani, Nobile, and Katanski however, It was destroyed only a few days after the completion in the airship hangar by a fire.Nobiles work, however, went further. W6 led its young remote travel on 5. November 1934 under Umberto Nobile. Two days later, the ship sailed triumphantly over Moscow and was part of the celebrations to the October revolution. The W6 was called "Ossoawiachim" (abbreviation for obchtchestvo sodejstwija oborone, aviazionnomu i chimitscheskomu stroitjelstwu society for the promotion of defense, aviation and chemistry ()), for an organization that is supposed to make the air travel in the General Public popular.
TechnikW6 was the payload, a further development of Nobiles Italia with a length of about 105 m, a diameter of approximately 18-20 m, a volume of 19 400 m3 and 8500-9640 kg. The float was divided into six gas cells. The weight was about 12 tons, the takeoff weight of 21.3 t. The nacelle length was 15,12 m. Three-piston motors with altogether 590 kW (other source: 3x191 kW) made possible a speed of 93 km/h. Other sources speak of 115 km/h. The ship was operated by a 15-member crew.
Operating all during the stay Nobiles from 1931 to 1936 in the Soviet Union-built airships were intended for passenger transport. USSR-W6 should be riding the line between Moscow and Sverdlovsk, could not be used, because there was no airship hangars, anchor masts and possibilities for Refuelling. Until 1936, when it was finally set up in Sverdlovsk region, a mooring mast. 1937 airship captain Pankow with W6 led a 79-hour successful trial trip on the Route Moscow-Sverdlovsk-Moscow, and in the case of constantly running motors, a permanent record of the journey of 130 hours and 27 minutes.
The record-breaking journey began in Dolgoprudnyj ( ) at 29. September and ended on may 4. October. The travelled route was supposed to last about 5000 km. These trips were used in the preparation of a regular airship traffic. The source location to other rides is very thin.
The EndeAm 5. February 1938, at 16:45, the ship went to its demise. A group of Soviet Arctic researchers, the Ivan Papanin had purchased in the vicinity of the North pole, the drifting ice station North pole-1, the finally, the Greenland East coast drive. There, the ice began to break up, whereupon the crew on the 1. February 1938, a cry for help dropped. Then USSR-W6 was sent to the researchers. The accident happened during the Transfer from Moscow to Murmansk. This journey is supposed to serve as a test case for the Arctic conditions. From Murmansk, the aeronaut wanted to embark on the recording of the researchers in the direction of Greenland. The ship collided in the vicinity of Kandalaksha with the 440 m high mountain Neblo ( ). According to the official Version was on the "pre-revolutionary" cards to the misfortune of a sink up to 30 m under the sea level. Unofficially, it will increase reported that it was due to mistrust of the old maps and the poor visibility of the command from the first commander Nikolai Gudowanzew, 800 m to the. Ivan Pankow, the second in command, but the execution very much time, because he feared to lose in the poor visibility of the orientation. He remained instead at an altitude of 300 m. Of the 19 people on Board 13 people were killed in the cabin, and three more were injured.The tomb of the aeronaut is located at the Novodevichy cemetery in Moscow. The researchers on the ice floe were rescued by icebreakers. It is believed that this accident was also the reason for the end of the then-Soviet air shipbuilding programme.In 1968 was built on the mountain Neblo, the airship crashed, of students and of the local administration, a monument next to the still existing ruins.
