The SIAI S. 16 was a seaplane biplane reconnaissance and attack submarines developed by the company, the Italian aeronautics Company Seaplanes Alta Italia (SIAI) in the late first decade of the TWENTIETH century.Designed as a seaplane transport by the offer on the market of commercial aviation, it was subsequently an armed version for military use and a variant by training, who assumed the designation of the SIAI S. 23.
The history of the progettoAl the end of the First world war, the market, civil air transport was developing in Italy. The SIAI then entrusted them to the engineer Raffaele Conflenti the development of a seaplane of line to suggest to the various airlines that were growing at that time ia in the national territory and across Europe. Conflenti is based on previous projects such as the S. 8 used by the Service Aircraft of the royal Navy, designing a new model, which will take on the designation of the SIAI S. 16, private of the armament and optimized for the new role.The S. 16 " the appearance of the earlier models without the introduction of particular technological innovations but by introducing a compartment of five seats for passengers. The SIAI proposed in the Paris air show of 1919 was not able, however, to get the interest hoped for.It was thus developed a second version, reinforced, and equipped with fuel tanks increased to increase the autonomy, the S. 16bis, but also this version did not find a great deal of interest in the air transport market.To recover the economic investment made in its development it was prepared a military version intended for the role of reconnaissance and bombardment of light, who assumed the designation S. 16bis M (Military). the version was more successful and the company was awarded a contract to supply the royal Navy. A further development that interested the group motoelica was resolved when it became available a unit that provided more power than the now-dated original 6-cylinder Fiat A. 12bis, credited in its latest versions of 300 HP (221 kW), were equipped with the models up to that time. The Isotta Fraschini was able to capture it from the French Lorraine-Dietrich production license of their engine 12Db with a 12-cylinder V, capable of delivering 400 HP (298 kW).The business aviation successfully carried out with in the period were the viaticum of new interest on the part of the civilian market, resulting in a certain degree of success, despite the delay, also in that sector.
TecnicaL'S. 18 was characterized by an appearance of the conventional for the era, or structure to the main hull, biplane, single-engine propeller-pusher.The hull, characterized in hull concave, it was made of wood, with a compartment open at two places side-by-side for the pilot and co-pilot observer. Rear ended in a tail boom characterized by a tail on the classic cruciform, monoderiva and horizontal planes braced.The configuration the wingspan was a biplane with the upper wing and bottom of the same size. The wing root of the lower wing was mounted high on the hull and was equipped with two floats adhesive applied to the lower part through a tubular structure. The two wings were connected by a series of tubular uprights and tie rods in steel wire, and to the main hull through a body, where it was also found that the engine 12-cylinder V-Lorraine-Dietrich 12 Db from 400 HP (298 kW) in the configuration and pushing, in combination with a two-blade propeller in fixed pitch wooden.
MilitareIn Italy S. 16bis M. it was used by the royal Navy directly under its control up to the establishment, in 1923, the Regia Aeronautica and of the subject of Aviation auxiliary of the Navy, becoming the first bomber in the neofondata aircraft weapon. Later he was joined by the S. 16ter, which was equipped with the best features, thanks to the adoption of a more powerful engine plant, the Lorraine-Dietrich 12 Db built under license by Isotta Fraschini.He was also employed by the Aeronáutica Militar Española as a seaplane aboard the portaidrovolanti Maze, the first unit classified as carriers of the Armada Española, the navy of Spain.
CivileDal 1926 the advertising made by companies in the aeronautic opened the market of civil aviation. The airline company Aero Espresso Italiana (AEI) bought two of the S. 16ter to operate on its domestic routes while the Italian Company Air Services (SISA), one of the brothers Callisto and Alberto Cosulich, alongside its CANT four the S. 16ter for the training of its crews.The Company's Increase in Tourist Plane Rome (SITAR), active in Liguria, he worked with two S. 16bis, three of the S. 16ter, and a S. 16, on the route linking san remo and Genoa.
In September 1920, at the controls of Umberto Maddalena, won the then record for the longest Raid performed by the seaplanes flying from Sesto Calende to HelsinkiGuido Mattioli. In flight with Umberto Maddalena. (1938) Publishing The Aviation Industry, Rome. .In 1924 the conquest, the record of altitude for seaplanes for the class with the 500 kg payload, reaching 4 597 metres. .But it is with the commander Francesco De Pinedo and the engineer Ernesto Campanelli that the S. 16 is linked to its most important business. The raid began on 20 April 1925 and, who crossed three continents in 55 000 km to 370 h of flight starting from Sesto Calende to Melbourne, then Tokyo and back to Rome on the 7th of November next. The model used for the enterprise was a S. 16ter modified with additional fuel tanks and called "Gennariello" by De Pinedo, from good neapolitan by birth entrusts so the company in San Gennaro. As a further gesture, the mercy seat was added to the name, the motto, in Latin, "Ibis redibis", or "I'll be right back".
the civilian version of the line is characterised by the hull and the edges d ;d attack wing, reinforced, greater fuel capacity, equipped with engine Fiat A. 12bis.
