it
Diagonal:1, Size:3
[1]Salini Impregilo is an Italian group operating in the field of construction and engineering; is active in the construction of dams, hydroelectric plants, hydraulic works, railways and subways, airports and motorways, civil and industrial construction.According to some data, in the first place in the ranking of the main Italian firms operating in the esteroRapporto ANCE 2015 on the presence of Italian construction companies in the world http://www.ance.it/docs/docDownload.aspx?id=27996Rapporto ANCE 2013 on the presence of Italian construction firms in the world StoriaIl Group Salini Impregilo is the result of the merger by incorporation of Salini SpA into Impregilo SpA, with effect from 1 January 2014Il Sole 24 Ore, June 25, 2013, the "Yes to a merger between Impregilo and Salini".
[2]The project, started in 2011 with the entry of Saline in the share capital of Impregilo and finds its fundamental reason in the goal of merging the two realities and with the vocation internazionaleComunicato print Salini Impregilo “Stipulated the deed of merger by incorporation of Salini S.p.A. in Impregilo spa”.
[3]The merger was supported by small investors, institutional investors and activists, followed by a report on the voluntary public purchase offer of a totalitarian (OPA) launched by Salini on ImpregiloLa Republic, 11 February 2013, the "tender offer of Impregilo, the moves of Salini and Gavio" and ended definitively in April 2013.
Diagonal:2, Size:2
[10]2005: after l ;the exercise of the call option on the shares held by Gemina, the previous reference shareholder, the capital stock goes to about 30% in Igli spa.
[11]2006: the company Fisia Italimpianti and its subsidiary Fisia Babcock GMBH return the property to 100% of Impregilo.
Diagonal:3, Size:2
[21]February: Salini S.p.A. launches a Takeover bid on the totality of the ordinary shares of Impregilo it did not already own of 4.00 euro per share.
[23]June: following the approval of the respective boards of directors, on June 24, is formalized by means of the press the project of merger by incorporation of Salini into Impregilo.
Diagonal:4, Size:2
[44]In 2000, the FIRE (an acronym obtained from the names of the companies, Fisia, Impregilo, Babcock and Evo, i.e. Energieversorgung Oberhausen AG) was awarded the contract for the state for the entire cycle of collection and disposal of industrial waste in the Campania region.
[45]FIBE and FIBE Campania are the companies of the Group Fisia, in turn 100% owned by Salini Impregilo, won the tender thanks to the reduced time of implementation of the incineration plants: the timing of the construction of the incinerator of Acerra contract was 300 days.
Diagonal:5, Size:3
[49]The contract was signed by the Berlusconi government on 27 march 2006.
[50]The approval of the final design and, consequently, of the executive project by the inter-Ministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE) and the concessionaire, the Strait of Messina S.p.A. led by group to expire in a defined time in the ten months since the signing of the contract; in this period of time (until summer 2007) the government and the Strait of Messina S.p.A. had the opportunity to withdraw from the deal.
[51]The provision of the project by the government would have resulted in the payment of a penalty that increases in relation to the time in which this decision should be communicated to the parties.In the month of October 2007, the parliament voted for the final appropriation of the project and the dissolution of the Stretto di Messina spa the proposal of the majority (Prodi government) was rejected, also due to the contrary vote of the party Italia dei valori, founded by Antonio Di Pietro, Minister of Infrastructure in the Prodi Government II, who had instead proposed to incorporate the Straits of Messina spa in the ANAS.
Diagonal:6, Size:2
[60]The works lasted from 1964 to 1968.
[61]Iceland, the Dam of KárahnjúkavirkjunL'hydroelectric plant of Kárahnjúkavirkjun, located about 90 km south-west from the town of Egilsstadir, in the eastern region of the country, is currently the most important work carried out in Iceland.A system of three dams collects the waters of the glacier river Jokulsa a From in the invaded Halslòn and the pipe, through 73 km of underground pipeline to an underground powerhouse of 690 MW of total capacity.The construction of the whole web site has been created in the period 2003-2009.
Diagonal:7, Size:3
[66]USA, the New “Gerald Desmond” Long BeachNel July 2013, the group, in joint venture with Shimmick Construction (USA) and FCC Construction (Spain), won the competition launched for the design and construction of the new bridge, “Gerald Desmond” in Long Beach (California).
[67]The total value of the contract is approximately 650 million dollars (the portion attributable to the group is 30%).
[68]The new cable-stayed bridge will have a total length of approximately 610 metres with a span main of about 300 m and the viaduct of access to the length of about 2 kilometres.The project is particularly complex from the point of view of technical and organisational, since it provides for the maintenance of road, rail and transit naval from and to the port throughout the period of execution of works will be approximately four years.
