it
Diagonal:1, Size:4
[10]2005: after l ;the exercise of the call option on the shares held by Gemina, the previous reference shareholder, the capital stock goes to about 30% in Igli spa.
[11]2006: the company Fisia Italimpianti and its subsidiary Fisia Babcock GMBH return the property to 100% of Impregilo.
[12]In that period there appeared rumors of a possible merger between Impregilo and Astaldi group S. p.a..
[13]from 2007 to 2011: l ;the shareholding of the majority (29.6% in and signed ;Igli ;) was composed of a shareholders ' agreement in a manner equal to 33%, between the company Argofin (Gavio group), Motorways (the Benetton family) and Immobiliare Lombarda (gruppo Ligresti).
Diagonal:2, Size:2
[21]February: Salini S.p.A. launches a Takeover bid on the totality of the ordinary shares of Impregilo it did not already own of 4.00 euro per share.
[23]June: following the approval of the respective boards of directors, on June 24, is formalized by means of the press the project of merger by incorporation of Salini into Impregilo.
Diagonal:3, Size:2
[44]In 2000, the FIRE (an acronym obtained from the names of the companies, Fisia, Impregilo, Babcock and Evo, i.e. Energieversorgung Oberhausen AG) was awarded the contract for the state for the entire cycle of collection and disposal of industrial waste in the Campania region.
[45]FIBE and FIBE Campania are the companies of the Group Fisia, in turn 100% owned by Salini Impregilo, won the tender thanks to the reduced time of implementation of the incineration plants: the timing of the construction of the incinerator of Acerra contract was 300 days.
Diagonal:4, Size:5
[47]he won the international tender for the construction of the bridge on the strait of Messina, beating the last-roped competitor guided by the parent company, Astaldi S. p.a..
[48]The final bid turned out to be 3.88 billion euros, with the project that he considered a time of completion of 70 months.
[49]The contract was signed by the Berlusconi government on 27 march 2006.
[50]The approval of the final design and, consequently, of the executive project by the inter-Ministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE) and the concessionaire, the Strait of Messina S.p.A. led by group to expire in a defined time in the ten months since the signing of the contract; in this period of time (until summer 2007) the government and the Strait of Messina S.p.A. had the opportunity to withdraw from the deal.
[51]The provision of the project by the government would have resulted in the payment of a penalty that increases in relation to the time in which this decision should be communicated to the parties.In the month of October 2007, the parliament voted for the final appropriation of the project and the dissolution of the Stretto di Messina spa the proposal of the majority (Prodi government) was rejected, also due to the contrary vote of the party Italia dei valori, founded by Antonio Di Pietro, Minister of Infrastructure in the Prodi Government II, who had instead proposed to incorporate the Straits of Messina spa in the ANAS.
Diagonal:5, Size:2
[60]The works lasted from 1964 to 1968.
[61]Iceland, the Dam of KárahnjúkavirkjunL'hydroelectric plant of Kárahnjúkavirkjun, located about 90 km south-west from the town of Egilsstadir, in the eastern region of the country, is currently the most important work carried out in Iceland.A system of three dams collects the waters of the glacier river Jokulsa a From in the invaded Halslòn and the pipe, through 73 km of underground pipeline to an underground powerhouse of 690 MW of total capacity.The construction of the whole web site has been created in the period 2003-2009.
Diagonal:6, Size:2
[63]The work should be completed by the end of 2014, in the centenary year of the opening of the Panama Canal.2014: The jobs are at risk one stop for financial problems and a dispute between the consortium of the builders and the panamanian authorities on costs in excess of 1.6 billion dollars.
[65]For the consortium of manufacturers (in addition to the Italian Salini Impregilo, even by spain's Sacyr Vallehermoso, Somague (Portugal), Jan de Nul (Belgium) and panama's Constructora Urbana) the excessive costs were due to unforeseen events that have occurred during the construction, a normal thing for this type of projects.Impregilo, the work on widening the Channel of Panama to risk stop for litigation costs in excess of August comes the agreement between the ACP (Canal Authority of Panama) and the GUPC (Grupo Unido por el Canal), and is signed by the variation of the contract for co-financing necessary for the completion of the project.
Diagonal:7, Size:3
[66]USA, the New “Gerald Desmond” Long BeachNel July 2013, the group, in joint venture with Shimmick Construction (USA) and FCC Construction (Spain), won the competition launched for the design and construction of the new bridge, “Gerald Desmond” in Long Beach (California).
[67]The total value of the contract is approximately 650 million dollars (the portion attributable to the group is 30%).
[68]The new cable-stayed bridge will have a total length of approximately 610 metres with a span main of about 300 m and the viaduct of access to the length of about 2 kilometres.The project is particularly complex from the point of view of technical and organisational, since it provides for the maintenance of road, rail and transit naval from and to the port throughout the period of execution of works will be approximately four years.
