The acanthus with soft leaves (Acanthus mollis) is a plant of the family of Acanthacées, also called acanthus soft or acanthus leaf large. It is known for its leaves, used for architectural design, for example, on the corinthian capitals. This species is very frequent on the shores of the mediterranean.
Device végétatifL'acanthus soft is a plant of 30 cm to 80 cm in height, but may reach 1.50 m, inflorescence included. Its numerous basal leaves have a long petiole, the set can reach nearly a meter. They are large (30 to 60 cm long), opposite, deep green, shiny, soft to the touch. These leaves are large, divided into several lobes, toothed but not spiny (as opposed to Acanthus spinosus).
Device reproducteurLa flowering occurs in this species between may and August. The inflorescence is a long spike cylindrical, in fact, a cyme uniparous helicoid of 30 to 40 cm, many-flowered, with bisexual. Each flower is surrounded by three bracts, bract with central cut-out and thorny and larger in size than the other two. The calyx has two lips, of which the upper is pretty long and forming a sort of "helmet" at the top of the corolla is often tinged purple on the top. The corolla is reduced to a lower lip white, veined with purple-pink, three-lobed pendants ; the flower can reach 5 cm long . The 4 stamens are fused to the corolla and look like tiny brushes to habit. The ovary is superior, it contains two carpels.
Pollination is entomogame. The flower is set up in such a way that only bees or bumble bees large enough to force the passage between the sepal upper and lower lip can reach the nectar at the bottom of the tube.The fruit is a capsule loculicide of an ovoid shape, containing two to four large, black seeds at maturity. The mode of seed dispersal is the autochorie.File:Acanthus mollis leaf.jpg|the leaf of The acanthus leaf soft
Habitat and répartitionCette mediterranean plant is located on the continents european and african (more specifically in southern Europe and North Africa) Bernard helen baker, medicinal Plants of the world : beliefs and realities, ed De Boeck Secundair, 2001, p. 7. Its habitat type is the land mésoxérophiles, subméditerranéennes. Often planted, the acanthus soft is also quite common in the wild, at the edge of roads and on uncultivated land, especially in places with rocky and bushy. It will generally not exceed 300 m altitudeVignes P., and D. The herbarium of wild plants, p 18, Editions Larousse, Paris, ISBN 978-2-03-583568-0.The Acanthus leaf soft wild is regarded as characteristic of the undergrowth of the forests of Elm trees riparian and mediterranean (association Acantho mollis-Ulmetum minor) .This plant is also able to reproduce asexually through root suckers from the strain bearing buds underground.
PharmacopéeLa plant contains appreciable quantities of mucilage and tannin. The crushed leaves have been used as a poultice to relieve the brûluresChevallier. A., The Encyclopedia of Medicinal Plants, Dorling Kindersley, London, 1996. ISBN 978-0-7513-0314-8.
The acanthus leaf, stylised is an ornament of the architecture classiqueVoir, among others, the article "Acanthus" in the Dictionary of architecture d'aviler.. See architectural Order, and more especially the capitals of the corinthian order and the composite order. We find this pattern, for example, on the Column to acanthus (or "Dancers of Delphi").
