The King Long United Automotive Industry Co. Ltd, commonly known as King Long (known in chinese as Jinlong, that is, literally, Golden Dragon) is a company of production of buses was founded in December 1988 with headquarters in Xiamen, in the province of Fujian, in the people's Republic of China.
His activity is mainly focused on the development, production and sales of luxury buses of large and medium-sized and light vans.
The company was founded in 1988 as a King Long United Automotive Industry Co. Ltd. and it is one of the joint ventures with the longest history in the field of bus production.
The company is now owned jointly at the Xiamen Automotive Industry Corporation, the state-owned company Xiamen Investment Co Ltd and San Yang Industry Co. Ltd. Taiwan, with a percentage respectively of 50%, 25 % and 25%.
The Group Long is divided into three branches, the King Long United Automotive Industry Co. Ltd. properly speaking, the Xiamen Golden Dragon Bus Co. Ltd. and the Higer Bus Co. Ltd. which to sell their models under the brands "King Long", "Golden Dragon" and "Higer" respectively.In 2003, with the sale of the 82 bus (type XMQ6113) in Malta, the King Long was the first chinese company to sell buses in Europe.
Was again subject to media attention in 2011, with the delivery of the other 172 vehicles in Malta, the company Comes in; this was the first commercial success for China in the market, highly regulated, such as that of the european Union to which Malta has acceded in 2004.Milestones the official Website of the King Long. Retrieved November 30, 2014.
The delivery was preceded by a european tender, where the chinese manufacturer has managed to prevail against established brands including Daimler AG.
The plant of King Long covering a total area of 200,000 square meters, with over 1800 employees, of which 400 are technical engineers, 30 are graduates specialized, that play a key role in different sections such as production management, quality control, finance, sales and after-sales service .
Thanks to a policy of production and report quality, aggressive price, the King Long has first taken a leading position among the manufacturers of the national bus market in the coach chinese which is revealed to be the largest in the world.The King Long has cared to take a close collaboration with a large number of parts suppliers with international reputation, including German companies MAN and ZF, american companies Cummins, Dana and Neway, French company Telma, and japanese Nissan, and Hino and the Italian company IVECO.The King Long currently offers a range of 5 main products, which are in their turn divided into more than 50 categories, covering virtually all categories of buses and coaches between 6 and 13 metres, gaining popularity in the bus industry, tourism, and in the market for city buses.The products of King Long are sold currently on many foreign markets, including India, Costa Rica, Bulgaria, Singapore, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Cyprus, Lebanon, Malta, the United States, Argentina, Barbados, Hong Kong, Hungary, Macau, and Thailand.
