The Lister Storm is a racing car homologated for the road, built by Lister in the united Kingdom from 1993. The Storm used the more grosV12 mounted on a road car since World War ii. It was based on the V12 engine of the jaguar XJR racing a 6,996 cc. Due to the price of the car (350 000$), only four examples were produced before production stopped. Only three Storm have survived today, although the company Lister continues to maintain racing models.The V12 Lister two-valves-per-cylinder engine produced 546 hp) and 790 N·m of torque. this car, rear mid-engine and rear-wheel drive weighed 1,664 kg, and was capable of performing the 0 to 100 km/h in just 4.1 seconds. Until the launch of the Brabus Rocket in 2006, the Lister Storm was the car, four-seater the fastest monde.Classicdriver.de: Lister Storm
Storm GTSLa Lister Storm GTS made its debut at the 24 Hours of le Mans 1995 class GT1, the face of cars like the McLaren F1 GTR, Ferrari F40, Jaguar XJ220, and Porsche 911 GT2. The car, driven by Geoff Lees, Rupert Keegan and Dominic Chapell, did not work well and did not finish the race due to trouble in transmission after 40 laps.In 1996, the team decided to perform a first test to prepare for The le Mans undertake a Storm in the 24 Hours of Daytona, but the car gave up. Despite this disappointment, the team took part in the 24 hours of le Mans with the Storm GTS. The car finished in 19th place, with 59 laps behind the winner. After Le Mans, Lister decided to engage the Storm in the Championship OPI, it made its debut during the fifth round at the Nürburgring. The car was then committed to the 1000 km of Suzuka.http://listercars.co.uk/lister-storm-gt 1/ The Storm GTS dropped in every race that she participated in this season.
Storm GTLEn 1997, Lister realized that the Storm GTS was much too slow compared to some new competitors to the class (GT1, such as the Mercedes-Benz CLK GTR and Porsche 911 GT1. The Storm was therefore redesigned, with the addition of a before longer and more aerodynamic. This car was designated Storm GTL. She made her debut at the 24 Hours of Daytona, where it managed to take 19th place overall and the fourth of his class. Later in the year, two new Storm GTL were taken at le Mans, but none of them ended the race, because of two withdrawals during the 77th lap. A Storm GTL was also sent to all Member states to participate in the last two races of the FIA GT Championship at Sebring and Laguna Seca. The car abandoned in the two races.In 1998, the team tried the new Daytona, but once again the car suffered problems from the start of the race and gave up. With these difficulties, the team was not selected to the 24 Hours of le Mans and the team does not run during the rest of the year to focus on the redesign of the Storm.
In 1999, the Storm reappeared. The car had lost the aerodynamic appendages seen on the GTL. The team announced that it will participate in the full season of the FIA GT Championship, under the new regulations of the GT2 class. After a bad start, the team managed to take the fourth place at Hockenheim, only two rounds of two Chrysler Viper GTS-R winning. This was followed by a third place at Zolder and finally a second place at Donington, only 26 seconds of the Viper winning. These successes brought them to List the fifth place in the championship at the end of the season.For the season 2000, Lister was more optimistic about his possibilities. Chrysler-Oreca had officially left the championship, eliminating the competition of a factory team. As well, the List would run only against the private teams. The team List has proved its capabilities by winning the first race of the season in Valencia, which was followed by four other wins during the season, all claimed by drivers Julian Bailey and Jamie Campbell-Walter. With these victories, Lister won the championship team. At the same time, Lister was part of the British GT championship as a factory team, and with the private team Cirtek Motorsport. The two teams got nine victoires.De returning as defending champions in FIA GT, Lister hired two factory cars in 2001.Despite four victories during the season, the team had to settle for third place in the championship teams, beaten by the Viper private of the Tree Competition and Carsport Holland. A similar situation occurred in 2002, when Lister got three wins, but took the second place in the championship teams, still beaten by the Tree.In 2003, Lister was joined by FIA GT by a Storm private involved by Creation Autosportif. The factory team could not win a single race, but she took second place in the championship team. Creation was not far behind, with a fourth place in the championship, after the acquisition of a second Storm. At the same time, Lister began work on a new project, the Storm LMP. It was therefore, the beginning of the decline of the Storm GT.In 2004, Creation Autosportif became the main representative of Lister in FIA GT, the team
factory appearing only during certain races. Creation could not obtain the eighth place in the championship teams then that she became involved in The le Mans Prototypes, then the factory team could not score a single point all season. Lister began again the car in 2005, but the team couldn't reach that 10th place in the championship team. Following the 2005 season, List officially announced its withdrawal from the competition to focus on the Storm LMP.In 2006, the French team Red Racing bought a Storm to participate in the Championship FFSA GT. The team tried to participate in the FIA GT Championship, but gave up after seven laps during the race at Paul Ricard.
