Character of Maternus at St. Catherine's altar in the Cathedral of Trier (Johann Neudecker the Younger, 1725)Maternus (Saint, Feast day: 14. September; † 328), perhaps, was the third Bishop of Trier, is mentioned as the first historically witnessed Bishop of Cologne (Civitas Agrippinensium) in the years 313 and 314 as a participant in councils in Rome and Arles. He is regarded as Patron against fever, infectious diseases, and for the flourishing of the vines. Maternus means, according to the Ecumenical Holy lexicon of "the Maternal". By Saint Maternus of the family name Mattern.Maternus is represented in the so-called Maternus portal on the North transept of the Cologne Cathedral.
The origin and the year of birth is not known; according to a legend from the high middle ages than the year of death 328. His resting place was, perhaps, in Trier, claimed in the high middle ages Maternus for his own Bishop list. This Tradition is the same rate with caution as that of Maternus as a founding Bishop of Tongeren.Köln has probably never owned the bones of Maternus, while in Trier relics of Saint Maternus of about 760 historically handed down. The so-called crosier of St. Maternus is kept in the Cologne Cathedral treasure chamber, and in the Church important occasions still used today. Maternus adopted as a Confidant of the Roman Emperor Constantine I at the Lateran Synod in 313, in Rome and in 314 to the Synod of Arles in part, therefore, it can be assumed that its importance also outside of the Germanic provinces.At the time of the Bishop Maternus, Pope Sylvester I in the Church. According to the later-than-forgery detected donation of Constantine, the Church should be compensated in Rome by the Emperor Constantine for the prosecution, including the Lateran Palace in Rome. In addition, the Emperor had the Church of the Redeemer (now San Giovanni in Laterano). The Pope consecrated 326 the first Church. Where in Cologne, the first Christian Church, is not known. Under the Cologne Cathedral were found during excavations traces of churches since the 6. Century.Maternus was always striving for the medieval rank of disputes between the archbishops of Trier and of Cologne: he was Allegedly in possession of the original Peter staff, whose ownership of the rank as the oldest Church in Germany, was instrumental.Various medieval institutions of the Church were named after him, the materni hospital in Dresden.
