A native of Lone was bishop of Cologne, Trier and Tongeren to the end of and at the top{of the Fourth century}} of our era. Close to the emperor Constantine, Renowned for his wisdom, he had participated in the council of Rome in 313 and Arles in 314. He died in 325, or 344.It is a christian saint celebrated in particular the 20 September.
LégendesDe many legends ascribe to Mothering the evangelization of the Alsace region (construction of a place of worship in Ehl, the former city of the roman garrison under the name of Ellelum or Helvetum (today Benfeld) ; the sanctuary of Dompeter at Molsheim ; the church of Saint-Pierre-le-Vieux in Strasbourg...) and the cities of Tongeren, Huy, Dinant, Ciney, Namur, Walcourt, on the territory of present-day Belgium. Mothers would also have been the origin of the foundation of the city of Waremme, ainonstruction of places of worship in Namêche (Andenne), Leffe or to Foy-Notre-Dame. It is also reported to Maastricht.
An ancient legend says that saint Materne would have rather lived in the {the{the first century ad}} ad. It would have been the deceased son of the widow of Naim, resurrected by Jesus. Sent by saint Peter in the company of two disciples, Valère, and Eucher, in order to evangelize the north of Gaul and Germania, Materne would, therefore, always according to the legend, brought christianity to these regions as soon as the {{s}}, founding many places of worship and evangelizing a large number of cities, in particular in the region of the meuse.
The popular tradition attributes to Materne many miracles and wonderful facts. Thus, at Ciney, it would have raised the five children by drowning of a certain prince Clement, who governed the city condruzienne, resulting in the conversion to catholicism of the latter and his whole family. Another legend tells us that Materne, of passage in the county of Salm, in the Ardennes, would have brought back to life the young son of a relative of the count, resulting here also the conversion of the family.To Walcourt, Materne would have carved with his own hands a statue of the Virgin Mary.
In Namur finally, Materne would have been at the origin of the name of the city. It would have silenced a pagan idol, called Nam, thus giving the city the name of Nam-Mutus (Nam silent), who was later to become Namur.At Ehl in Alsace, Materne, exhausted by his travels, died. His disciples could not move from his presence, and returned to Rome to seek the stick of st. Pierre, by which they were able to resurrect Mothering for the second time. In the Fourteenth century, the Lorraine tradition attributes it to Clement of Metz the initiative of the rescue; this appropriation fits into the rivalries that existed between Metz and its metropolitan TrèvesVilles and villages of Lorraine: urban networks and centrality in the Middle Ages p. 453, Jean-Luc Fray 2006.
Regardless of the veracity of all these stories, it is clear that they bear witness that Materne was without a doubt one of the pioneers of the evangelization of Gaul to the North.Saint Materne is revered locally in the month of September (the 14th, the 20 or the 25 depending on the location).
