As Sigebaudo the 34th bishop of Metz, he came to the family Ansbertina of Albi. Archdiocese of Albi (Albia). Goyau, G. (1907) In The Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton CompanyPer some writers Goerico was the son Gamardo, brother of Ansberto the senator, and the grandson of Tonantius Ferreolus.Histoire des institutions politiques de l'ancienne France tome 6, livre II, p. 144 Fustel de Coulanges, Paris, Hachette, 1907
BiografiaSposatosi, had two daughters, Precia and Vittorina. He was a soldier, and then governor of the region of Albi.Saint Goëric Daniel Bigerel, the Cercle d'études locales de Houdemont It is said that it was the state official in the retinue of Dagobert I, but this poses problems of dates since Dagobert became king in 629, after Goerico had already become bishop of Metz. He appears, however, in the testament of king of the 636 under the name of Abbo.. now blind, was miraculously healed with the application of a stone that had collected the blood of st. Stephen (another tradition says that the healing took place during a pilgrimage to his uncle, Arnulf of Metz, the then bishop of the diocese, in the Cathedral of Metz, which is dedicated to st. Stephen the protomartyr ). To thank God that he made use of his assets to build a church in Metz, dedicated to San Pietro, Dictionnaire du département de la Moselle, p. 292, Claude Philippe de Vivile, 1817 church, which was destroyed in 1755.He was ordained a priest by his uncle, Arnulf, who succeeded in 627 (625 or 629) to the chair of the bishop of Metz.
Became bishop in 641 did translate the relics of his predecessor at the Abbey of the Holy Apostles in Metz and the Abbey of Épinal for his two sons.He kept correspondence with the bishop of Cahors, Didier, some of the letters which have come down to us.He died in 644 (642 or the September 19, 647) and his relics were placed in the Abbey of San Sinforiano to Metz.
CultoVenerato as a saint, his liturgical memorial falls on September 19. On the 21st of June 984Orbituitaire du chapitre : "(Trans)latio (Saints Goerici M)etensis episcopi" as of the date of the ELEVENTH of the kalends of July, that is, on the 21st of June his relics (except the head) were transferred from the Abbey of St. symphorian's Metz to Épinal to consecrate the Abbey that was built on a chapel dedicated to the saints of the SEVENTH century. B. Houbot, Fondation et origines de la ville d Épinal, "Bulletin de la Société Lorraine des Études Locales", 1976. For the occasion intervened, the 27th (or the 28th) bishop of Metz, Gerard of Toul, the one for the Abbey founded by his predecessor, and the other because the Spinal was in his diocese. This event is locally commemorated on the 15th April because there happened a miracle, as told by Wildric to the 1030: the boxes containing the relics of Goerico were ill-prepared and were not closed when a reduction in the miraculous did succeed the operation.
Notes Épinal, which in medieval times was an important pilgrimage destination. A table of 1725, preserved in the Basilica of San Maurizio in Epinal is san Goerico surrounded dais oui two children. Chip PM88000283sur the base Palissy.
