Its development began in 1993. The Storm took advantage of the time with 6996 cm3 largest V12 engine, which was installed after the Second world war in a series vehicle. It was a modification of the Jaguar machine, which had already come in the Jaguar XJR sports cars at the 24 hours of Le Mans. Due to the relatively high price of about US $ 350,000, only four copies were made, before production of the road version has been discontinued. Today three of them still exist, Lister holds but to maintain at least the racing versions.The drilled two ventilige Lister V12 delivered a power of 407 kW and a torque of 790 Nm. With a front engine and rear-wheel drive, the vehicle weighed in 1664 kg, and accelerated from 0 to 100 km/h in 4.1 seconds. Until recently, the Storm was considered as the fastest four-seater in the world. This is the title of the CLS-based Brabus Rocket with a speed of 365,7 km/h stopped in the meantime, until this title on the 12. November 2008 BMW M 5 Hurricane RS, the BMW Tuner G-Power with a officially confirmed by the top speed of 367,4 km/h went.1993 Lister StormG-POWER M5 HURRICANE RS official website retrieved on 17. January 2011
Storm GTSDer Lister Storm GTS debuted at the 1995 24 hours of Le Mans in the GT1 class as a competitor of cars such as the McLaren F1, the Ferrari F40, the Jaguar XJ220 and the Porsche 911 GT2. The first presentation of the car, driven by Geoff Lees, Rupert Keegan and Dominic Chapell, was not particularly successful, because he was due to circuit problems after less than 40 rounds.In 1996, the Team decided to treat the Storm before the Le Mans test run, and so he took part in the 24 hours of Daytona. It was not possible for the individual Storm here, too, to finish the race. Despite this setback, the Team ventured to the Storm GTS the foray to Le Mans. The car was at least able to improve over the disappointing Start, because you reached the goal. However, only in a distant 19. Place all the 59 laps behind the winner. After Le Mans, Lister decided that the Storm GTS into the BPR Global GT-series start, in which he had in the fifth race debut at the Nürburgring. However, the Storm GTS was any other race this season, the goal.
Storm GTLFür the season in 1997, Lister was clear, would have been the Storm GTS compared to the new competitors in the GT-1 class such as the Mercedes-Benz CLK GTR or the Porsche 911 GT1 is significantly too slow. He was transformed, and they gave him a longer and more aerodynamic front fascia. This new Version has now been referred to as the Storm GTL. It was first used during the 24 hours of Daytona, where he it on a 19. Place in the overall standings, and in his own class, was Fourth. In the same year were prepared for Le Mans, two further Storm GTL, but none of them came on the 77. Round. Also this year, a Storm GTL was spent in the United States in the last two races of the FIA GT championship at Sebring and Laguna Seca. Also, this car was neither of the two race finish.In 1998, it launched a new attempt Daytona, but again, early problems meant the premature. Due to these difficulties, the Team managed to come in the field of Le Mans and competed in this year to any other race. Instead, it focused on the transformation of the Storm.
In 1999, the Storm reappeared. He had exchanged the aerodynamic body parts of the GTL in favour of a more standard front end. The Team announced, to the entire FIA-GT-championship season under the new regulations, the GT2 class to attend. After a rather poor start to the season reached a fourth place at the Hockenheim circuit just two laps behind a winning Pair range from Chrysler Viper GTS-Rs. There is a third place in Zolder, and finally a second place at Donington, where the Lister was just 26 seconds behind the winning Viper. These successes led to Lister a shared fifth place in the overall standings of the Teams at the end of the season.With the coming of the year 2000, it was in Lister significantly more optimistic in terms of their own possibilities. Chrysler-ORECA had officially adopted by the championship, which is the last work of the team left as a competitor in the series. It remained only Private team, as the Challenger left. The Lister Team won the first race of the season in Valencia. There are four more wins during the season, all of which were retracted by Julian Bailey and Jamie Campbell-Walter followed. With these Victories Lister achieved overall victory in the team standings. At the same time, Lister competed in the British GT championship both as a factory team, as well as with a customer car for Cirtek Motorsport. Both Teams reached a total of nine victories.After it was returned as the winner of the FIA GT continued Lister the 2001 season with two cars. Although four victories have been won, has beaten the team in the team standings by Larbre Competition and Carsport Holland. A similar Situation arose in 2002 as the Lister Team achieved three wins and Second in the overall standings, was in turn beaten by Larbre.In 2003, another vehicle of the customer Creation auto sportif joined the Lister in the FIA-GT-Team. The factory team managed only a single win, finished the season but, nevertheless, on a second place in the overall standings. Creation was not far behind in fourth place after a Customer has been added. At the same time, Lister began work on a new project, the Storm LMP, which should bring the brand back to Le Mans, and thus reduced their involvement as a works team in the FIA GT.In the 2004 season Creation auto sportif took over the main role for the series, during the work season, competed only in selected races. Creation reached only an eighth place in the overall standings, after the Team also chose a Le Mans prototype. The factory team was able to retract only to a point. Lister started in 2005 a further attempt, but just reached enough points for a place as a tenth-best Team. After this season, the GT's were retired officially and the manufacturer has focused on the Storm LMP. In the game, GTR2, there is the 2003 Creation and Lister Racing, and in 2004, only Creation.In 2006, the French squadron Red Racing bought a Storm for the FFSA GT Championship. In spite of several failures ended Iradj Alexander and Gaël Lesoudier the race in Pau as the winner. Originally, the Team wanted to start at the FIA-GT championship, but it was not at the races at the Paul Ricard Circuit on the seventh lap. Since 2007, no Storm are currently in a race to.
