The Church of Our Lady in Trier is located directly next to the Trier Cathedral, in the centre of the German city. It, along with the Church of St. Elizabeth of Marburg, is the oldest gothic church in Germany.Since 1986, together with the Roman Monuments of the city and to the Cathedral of San Pietro, is part of the complex, considered as Patrimony of the Humanity by the UNESCO in Trier.
StoriaDopo that the ancient complex of the churches of the times of Constantine the Great, spent nearly a millennium, had to be demolished because of the collapse, the archbishop of Trier Theodoric II of Wied, began the construction of the church. The foundations of the previous religious building were reused. The exact date of the beginning of the work is not discoverable: an inscription on the inside of the church, on a pillar, reads: "The construction of this church began in the year 1227, and was completed in the year 1243, but it is now believed that the construction began only in 1230.In the works were massively employed master builders and artists lotaringi, and so he adopted the gothic style, prevalent in those times, which in France was already highly developed. The work is therefore one of the first examples of gothic germanic and it is also one of the rare religious buildings to the central plant of those times.Half had already completed around 1243, when the Chapter of the church were less the funds, which had to depend on the death of archbishop Theodoric, since he was the main funder. Only after a collection made in the archdiocese of Cologne by the archbishop of Cologne, Conrad of Hochstaden, and favored by a brief of indulgence, the construction could continue. In the documents of the time the church was already referred to as the "mother church" of all churches of the province. The work was completed around 1260. In 1492, on the cruise was installed a high steeple, and for its high degree of technical skill and height geometric was defined as a work of"art of the Maze". The spire you see in the old prints of the city, but on 2 July 1631 was destroyed by a violent storm. It was replaced by a pavilion roof, which was in turn destroyed during the second world war. It was replaced in 1945 and again in 2003 by a more steep.The church of Our Lady was used by the members of the Chapter of Trier Cathedral to celebrate their daily Mass, and used it also as the site for their tombs. However, in the course of the centuries, it was filled with graves, and in the course of the French revolution, a large part of these were transferred.After the occupation of Trier by the French revolutionary troops in 1794, in 1803, the church was separated organizationally and liturgically from the Duomo. First there was a close relationship between the Cathedral and the Church of Our Lady. In the course of a year, many processions came out from the cathedral to enter the Church of Our Lady, to which there is a passage that connects both. According to a local tradition, the church would have had to be demolished, but the burgomaster of Trier, on the occasion of a visit to the city of Napoleon Bonaparte, would have brought him on the balcony of the front of Palace in Kesselstadt, and would have told him: "Sire, you don't want to destroy the masterpiece of a French architect?" In any case, the nearby church of San Lorenzo, which was located directly in front of the Basilica of Constantine was demolished and the parish took the name of "church of Our Lady and of st. Lawrence". As a sign outside of the separation, the portal of the narthex, to the side of the Cathedral, used as a common entrance, was walled up, and the narthex became the sacristy of the Church of Our Lady. On the occasion of the pilgrimage for the exposition of the Sacred Tunic of 1959, the portal was reopened after it was closed again with a table of aces, and after the restoration of the Cathedral was replaced by a new portal, so that today it is again possible to use a common entrance. From 1859 until the 1890s, with some interruptions, was a great restoration. With the second world war the church suffered serious damage and was rebuilt between 1946 and 1951. The arrangement of the central space of the altar was designed by the architect Rudolf Schwarz, anticipating the directions of the second Vatican Council.The Church of Our Lady, started in 1951 by pope Pius XII the title of minor Basilica. The reason for this was the new arrangement of the space of the altar after the war, when it was placed in the center of the church. In 1986, the church, together with the Cathedral of Trier and Roman Monuments of the city and its surroundings, was included in the UNESCO list of Patrimonies of the Humanity. After over three years of amazing work of restoration, carried out between July 2008 and September 2011, the Church of Our Lady was reopened on September 4, 2011 worship.
Until the second world war the church had, since 1843; an organ work of a builder of organs Heinrich Wilhelm Breidenfeld. This instrument had 32 registers on two keyboards and pedals. It suffered serious damage in the course of the war, after which was designed a new organ. It was expected a body as a tool the multi-storey in the part of the church and a choir organ. The body primary was never installed and the one for the choir, only in part.It was installed in 1951 and had 15 registers and two manuals and pedals. In the course of the modernisation of 2011, the choir organ was added to a keyboard.
