BiografiaGérardo was the son of Inframme and Emma, who wanted to give them a solid christian formation. Bred at the Chapter of the cathedral, he was soon attracted to the priestly life. Become a priest, he pursued his studies in the parishes of the city, carrying out the activity of registrar of the Chapter.The Chapter of the cathedral of Toul, he sent a delegation to the archbishop of Cologne to look for a successor of saint Gozzelino, being in that period, the sovereign is entitled to appoint the bishop, otto I of Saxony, engaged in Italy.The Council of priests of the Colony chose unanimously Gerardo, who, while surprised of this choice, and he accepted. He was consecrated bishop in Trier on 19 march 963.Wanting to provide the city with a new cathedral that bore witness to his spiritual life, he undertook the construction of a large building of worship that reveal a glimpse of the cathedral, final, built in the XIII century and still current. However, he was able to complete only the choir and the transept, and consecrated in 981.He also founded monasteries, schools, a hospice to house the sick in need of care, called " Maison-Dieu, a center for the reception of foreigners come to Toul from far away countries to escape poverty. With great faith, he prayed for many hours, and it was with a deep piety and multiplied the divine services throughout the diocese. Not disdaining the services of his faithful, in receiving the poor at his table, opened their granaries in times of famine, and justice was administered in the diocese with a deep christian spirit.He continued the work of his predecessor, fighting against the paganism which was still practiced in the countryside and encouraging the establishment of monasteries.Put then in force, the worship of some local saints such as saint Elifio martyr, san Mansueto, the first bishop of Toul, saint Evro, seventh bishop of Toul, showcasing the relics and dedicating their oratories and chapels. He died exhausted by the great hardships which he had always subjected the 23 April, 994.
CultoGli were attributed several miracles and a vision of the Madonna, on the hills of the Saintois, that he would be asked to build a church, which he did. Gottfried Hierzenberger und Otto Nedomansky: Erscheinungen und Botschatten der Gottesmutter Maria (Vollständige Dokumentation durch zwei Jahrtausende), Pattloch Verlag, 1992.In the course of a trip to the pontifical, pope Leo IX came to Toul for the translation of the relics of bishop gellért, which was the successor.Pope Leo IX, born Bruno of the Counts of Egisheim-Dagsburg, was bishop of Toul from 1026 1051. On the night of 20 October 1051, the ceremony began with the opening of the tomb:
"...rose up early in the stone of the tomb and the body of St. Gerard, appeared in robes pontifical, white hair, closed eyes, like sleep in expectation of the Resurrection."It was after three days of ceremonies that the body of the saint was placed in a box, above an altar at the transept. All of this amounted to a veritable canonization.The altar of St. Gerard disappeared in the course of the EIGHTEENTH century: the cathedral of Tours still retains the head of the saint, and many bones, while other parts can be scattered in other parishes.The city of Gerardmer, of which Gerard of Toul was a co-patron along with st. Bartholomew the apostle, possessed a relic of the saint, which was lost when, on June 22, 1940, the church, where the relic was located, was destroyed.
