The soc Long United Automotive Industry Co. Ltd simply called King Long (Jinlong in chinese, or literally "golden Dragon") is a chinese manufacturer of small utility vehicles, vans, buses and coaches whose headquarters is located in Xiamen in Fujian province. It is the main chinese manufacturer in this field with 40,000 VCL and 39.414 buses and coaches which 10,000 exported in 2014.
The development of the company has been phenomenal to the point of marketing its products under several brands : King Long, Golden Dragon and Higer.King Long is a manufacturer which uses its own chassis but has to resort to the mechanical assemblies of the world specialists such as MAN, ZF, Cummins, FPT-Iveco or Hino.King Long was the first manufacturer in asia to sell buses in Europe, in Malta, in 2003. Exports account for approximately 20% to 25% of its production.
Seat socialLe the registered office of the company is located in Xiamen, via San Donato 190, and has a surface area of {{unit}} covered, where are manufactured and assembled all vehicles of the brand.
ProductionL'manufacturing plant of buses King Long has a total surface area of 200,000 square meters and employs over 1,800 workers and 400 engineers and technicians. The organization is very vertical since all activities are managed in-house, from vehicle design to after-sales service. Only the mechanical components, motors, and gearboxes are purchased from selected suppliers.King Long currently offers a range of 5 products main sub divided in 50 categories that cover almost all categories of buses and coaches from 6 to 13 meters in length. By its aggressive commercial policies, the manufacturer is offered an enviable position on the world market and with a level of quality satisfactory, it has managed to acquire a certain reputation in the closed area of the coach of grand tourism and urban buses.
DiffusionGrâce to a policy of very competitive prices and a strong aggressive commercial, the chinese manufacturer has taken over many of our competitors. Currently, King Long has a distribution network and subsidiaries, covering almost all the major countries of the world : India, Costa Rica, Bulgaria, Singapore, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Cyprus, Lebanon, Malta, United States, [Argentina]], Barbados, Hong Kong, Hungary, Macau, and Thailand. Only Europe has been able to resist, with the two major global automakers, Mercedes Benz and Iveco.
