Inside woman Church in Trier to view the love is immediately next to the Trier Cathedral in the centre of the city. It shall apply together with the Elisabeth Church in Marburg, Germany as the oldest Gothic Church in Germany and as the most important and earliest of the Gothic rotunda of the country.Since 1986, the Church of our lady is part of the UNESCO world heritage Roman monuments, Cathedral and liebfrauen Church in Trier.
History after the ancient double-Church complex from the time of Emperor Constantine the Great to be aborted after a thousand years, due to disrepair it had to, began Archbishop Theoderich von Wied, with the construction of the Church. Here, the foundations of the previous Church were used. The exact date of construction cannot be determined, a painted inscription inside on a column reads: "The construction of this Church ward started in the year 1227, and geendigt in the year 1243", but it is a start of construction around 1230. The construction Lorraine builders and artists of the 13. Century, significantly involved. As a result, the Gothic style was the dominant architectural idea of this time, which was developed in France. The building is one of the earliest German testimonies of the Germanic Gothic style and is also one of the rare Central buildings of this time.The half ends to about 1243, however, the financial resources from the Chapter of loving women. This could be associated with the death of Archbishop Theodoric, since this is regarded as a promoter. Only after a collection in the diocese of Cologne, in the year 1243, by Archbishop Konrad von Hochstaden approved and in a letter of Indulgence favoured, and continued the construction of the Church of our lady. In this deed the Church is referred to as "mother Church" of all churches in the Trier's province. Around 1260, the building was completed. In 1492, has been placed on the crossing tower is a high top, because of their high technical and manual completion of the degree has been referred to as the Daedali arte (the art of Daedalus). The high peak is seen on old views of the city, however, was in a storm at home day (2. July) in the year 1631 destroyed. A hipped roof was placed, which was destroyed in the Second world war. It was replaced in 1945 by a roof and this, in turn, in 2003, by a somewhat steeper.The Church of our lady was used by the members of the Cathedral Chapter, to read their daily mass, and served also as a burial Church. This led to the fact that she was overloaded in the course of the centuries, with graves literally. In the Wake of the French Revolution, the majority of these tombs were removed.After the occupation of Trier by the French revolution, in 1794, women in 1803, troops-loving, organizationally and liturgically from the Dom separately. Previously, a close relationship between the Dom and loving women. In the course of a year, many processions into the led from the Cathedral to the Church of our lady, there is a passage which connects the two churches to each other. A Trier according to Tradition, the love torn woman Church, however, the Trier mayor would have Napoleon on the occasion of his visit to Trier on the balcony of the opposite the Palais boiler city, and said to him: "Sire, you don't want to tear them off the masterpiece of a French architect". In any case, the nearby Church of St. Lawrence, the demolished, was directly to the Basilica of Constantine and the parish received the name of "Our lady and St. Laurentius". As an outward sign of the separation, the Portal between the Dom and loving women together, as a passage-occupied Paradise was walled up on the side of the Domes, and Paradise as a sacristy for loving women. On the occasion of the Holy robe pilgrimage in 1959, the Portal was re-opened, thereafter, with a Board door is accidentally closed and after domres to developers with a new wood portal, so that today a common use is possible.Of 1859, with some interruptions, until, in the 1890s, an extensive restoration took place. In the Second world war, suffered the Church of our lady the most serious destruction and was produced from 1946 to 1951. The design with a Central position of the altar was designed by the architects Rudolf Schwarz and the anticipated guidelines of the Second Vatican Council.The Church of our lady, received by the Pope in 1951, the distinction of minor Basilica. The reason for the redesign of the altar area after the war, when the Altar in the middle of the Church was placed. In 1986, the Church was included together with the Trier Cathedral and the Roman monuments in Trier and surroundings of the UNESCO in the world heritage list.After over three years of extensive restoration between July 2008 and September 2011, the Church of our lady was on 4. September 2011 re-opened.
Up to the Second world war, an organ from the year 1843, which had been built by the organ Builder Heinrich Wilhelm hotel field in the Church of our lady. The Instrument had 32 registers on two manuals and Pedal. This Instrument was damaged in the Second world war. After the war, the planning of a new Organ began. Was provided a main organ on the South side of the Church room, at ground level, as multi-storey Instrument, and a two-part choir, organ. The main organ has never been realized, and the designated choir organ only partially. It was inaugurated in 1951, with 15 stops on two manuals and Pedal (taper charging). The freestanding game table, however, was already three-manual to be able to the planned main organ connected. In the course of the interior renovation in 2011, the organ received a two manual game table. This is now connected to the Church's internal network with the two-part organ and can thus be installed in different Places in the Church.
