The Piaggio P. 7 or Piaggio-Pegna P. c. 7 is a seaplane courseitalien designed and built by Piaggio for the Trophy Schneider 1929.
Seeking to avoid the aerodynamic drag induced by floats of seaplanes, the engineer Giovanni Pegna, of the firm, Piaggio designed a float-very unusual to represent Italy at the Trophy Schneider 1929. The Piaggio P. 7 or Piaggio-Pegna P. c. 7 is a monoplane wing high cantilever that did not use hull or floats. When it was afloat the plane floated on the fuselage tight, its wings being attached to the surface of the water. Two hydrofoils, high-impact replace the floats during the phases of take-offs by raising the plane above the surface of the water, thanks to the effect of lift-off.Vašiček, Per. These two hydrofoils were mounted under the fuselage just in front of the wings in a manner similar to the floats of seaplanes. Sources differ on the engine of the P. 7, it would be either a v-6, Isotta-Fraschini Special of 970 hp, or an Isotta-Fraschini AS-5 to 1000 hp.Vašiček, p. 35. The motor was connected, by two different trees, both with a propeller air two-bladed variable pitch automatic and a small propeller to marine, similar to those used on motor-boats, mounted below the tail of the plane. During the takeoff, the pilot was starting the engine with the propeller of flight previously in a flag and the air intake of the carburetor closed. He used then a clutch for driving the propeller of the tail, and move on the water. When the P. 7 was the speed of the two hydrofoils were to make it out of the water almost immediately. After the plane rose on its foils and the propeller of flight is clear of the water, the pilot would open the air intake of the carburetor, and then re-use the clutch to disengage the propeller to marine and use a different clutch for driven propeller the air, and it would automatically not volume driven by its propeller the air, the airplane could then perform a take-off classic, perched high on its foils submerged, until it reaches its takeoff speed.Vašiček, Per. Without the aerodynamic drag and the weight induced by the floats, Pegna, thought that the P. 7 would be able to reach speeds between 580&#x20;km/h
Piaggio built a P. 7 and introduced him to the Italian team Trophy Schneider. Although some pilots refused to fly the aircraft, the Italian driver Tommaso Dal Molin conducted some tests on the Lake Garda, in northern Italy. And clutch problems persisted and the plane generates a lot of spray at take-off which were a hindrance to the vision of the driver. The plane could never fly.Vašiček, Per. Do not extend loan on time, the P. 7 was excluded from the Trophy Schneider 1929, in which a Macchi M. 52R and two Macchi M. 67 was that of Italy. Piaggio and Pegna abandoned the project to build a second P. 7.Vašiček, Per.
