The Piaggio P. C. 7 was a idrocorsa (seaplane race) made by the Italian company to Company Rinaldo Piaggio to participate in the Cup Schneider in 1929, the trophy that year, won by Henry Waghorn at the controls of a Supermarine S. 6 at Calshot Spit, United Kingdom.While never having been brought into the flight, the validity of the project has been demonstrated many years after design, thanks to a copy aeromodellistica in 1987. For the characteristic long muzzle was called "Pinocchio".
PremessaIl young engineer Giovanni Pegna, was taken up by Rinaldo Piaggio, owner of the homonymous company, to enhance and develop the aviation industry. He had designed seven vehicles of the type seaplane racing and was the bearer of the idea, common to many of the designers of the era, to improve the performance of the aircraft, the sporting events were a gym inexhaustible supply of solutions and of technological development.Among the aircraft that were the premise for the construction of P. C. 7 are mentioned the Pegna P. 1, P. 2 and P. 3. Pegna had thought of it and designed a vehicle, seaplane, all of the repeating a previous experience made by the Junkers in 1910.
The photos of the P. 3, dating back to 1923, show how the engineer Pegna had anticipated the forms of the hydroplanes racing the next, such as the Macchi M. 39 in the 1926 or the Supermarine S. 5 and S. 6.Piaggio Pegna P. 2 view ant..jpg |: Piaggio Pegna P. 2 view of front.
Pegna was convinced, since the twenties, that the seaplanes were to be the best solution to reach a higher speed, for two reasons: first, the possibility of using a hydro to make better use of the length is infinite of a water mirror calm, which facilitates take-off; in the second place, the improved aerodynamics of the hydro with respect to the planes of this earth, which, however, have or need to accommodate the landing gear by altering the fineness of the aerodynamic lines. The latter statement was true at the time, especially for the aircraft of small size.
The next step Performed was the elimination of landing gear and/or boots flotation to improve the fineness of the lines". This was the idea behind the key, and the key element of the revolutionary project of the Piaggio P. C. 7; at which Pegna arrived, after having also thought of a seaplane, the p. 4, (which, however, does not never left the drawing boards) to the main hull, with floating side retractable mechanically.In the design of the Piaggio P. C. 7 the role of the wing submerged it also had the function to stabilize transversally the aircraft during the initial stages of take-off.
The fins are immersed in the water derived from the previous experiences carried out in various ways, from engineers Enrico Forlanini, Gaetano Arturo Crocco, and Alessandro Guidoni, and by the same Pegna since 1917. For the design of the wing, oriented on a-type profile, Munk, according to the technique of the flow of thin air by the same conceived a few years before. What, this, that allowed him to build a wing of relatively small, stiff and light. In the course of the first tests of the fins gave rise, at high speeds drag-and-drop in the take-off phase, the phenomenon of cavitation as soon as it emerged from under the profile of the water, thus creating serious phenomena of instability. Performed in a brilliant way, he thought to take advantage of this phenomenon accentuandolo so as to give more support to the take-off phase, and eliminating the contact of the propeller as the marina as soon as that area was free to rotate; to do so took advantage of the boost to rise up to the surface of the water that the fins submerged, generated with the increase of the speed. In the end, he himself wrote, the secret is in the design of the fins that act like stones thrown without bouncing on the surface of the water.
The P. c. 7 was the latest evolution of the series of seaplanes Piaggio, which began with the P. C. 1. Designed by the engineer Giovanni Pegna adopted technical solutions are very innovative.From a standstill, the P. c. 7 was similar to a seaplane to the main hull, as the function of flotation was entrusted to the fuselage, fitted with two watertight bulkheads. In this situation, the propeller remained partially submerged.There was a second small propeller, which is placed in the terminal part of the aircraft, with the function of making possible the maneuvers and the decolloPiaggio P. 7 in Virtual Aircraft Museum.. For the test, were used numerous propellers.To the front, three-blade, they were ordered three variable pitch, stainless steel, made from Standard Steel. The other three helices, made of aluminum and also three-blade, were made by Caproni. The latter adopted three different fixed steps. The tail rotor, two-bladed and variable pitch was also made of aluminum.Under the fuselage there were three fins, two in the front, between the muzzle and wings, and a third in the retracted position, near to the propeller in the rear. These flaps were the subject of intense study by Pegna, who performed a number of tests with scale models in order to reach the ideal design.FIAT would have had to provide both the transmission and the engine, the latter with a power of 1 000 HP, but withdrew from the project. He opted then for an engine Isotta Fraschini, a V6 from a 800 HP, which was limited to 2 600 rpm/min.The aircraft was built in wood, with a broad use of the plywood. In addition to the fuselage, wings and ailerons were sealed.
To take-off, the pilot pulled the prop back. Reached a certain speed, the wings lifting the aircraft, in a manner similar to a hydrofoil. At this point, the pilot pulled on the helix root, which had to do unplug the P. c. 7 from the surface of the water.In the phase of take-off clutches, one for each propeller, had a delicate role. Working together, transferring gradually the power from the propeller back to front. For ditching, even at high speed, the flaps would have had to ensure a positive pressure sufficient to avoid tipping.
The technical problems and the abbandonoNel 1929 test pilot Tommaso Dal Molin, (silver medal to the value of the aircraft) was able to run some tests, using only the propeller in the rear.
The aircraft, in this condition, had a behavior similar to a hydrofoil. The fins, which remained submerged, kept the muzzle of the P. C. 7 above the surface of the water; not even managing never, during the tests performed, to make a true take-off.The friction that was acting on the propeller back showed various problems during engagement, including abundant oil from leaking inside the fuselage. In these situations, the engine lost power, and was missing the thrust enough to keep lifting the aircraft.The technical problems, which were never fully resolved, led to the abandonment of project and termination of the contract by the R. Aeronautica. Termination contemplated in the case in which the aircraft could not be built in time for racing. The lack of sufficient time for it to correct the mechanical problem prevented that you could introduce more efficient aircraft for the Cup Schneinder of that year, forcing the designer, in spite of himself, to stop prematurely, the tests on the aircraft, disrupting the development of the same.While writing Mr. Pegna of his desire to continue to develop his creature: so not going to happen. The prototype remains the only project of this type ever made by Mr. Pegna.
Aircraft in scalaNel 1988 was built by a well done French a scale model. This aircraft is able to take off and fly, as originally planned by Pegna, thus confirming in a way posthumously, the goodness of the initial project.
