For the Roman emperors Maximinus, see Maximinus Thrax or Gaius Valerius Galerius Maximinus.  For the 6th century Saint Maximin, see Mesmin.
 Saint Maximin (born at Silly near Poitiers; — Poitiers 12 September 346His brother was bishop of Poitiers. Other dates are given for his death; this is from Schaff-Herzog.) was the fifth bishop of Trier, according to the list provided by the diocese's website, taking his seat in 341/342.Jerome's Martyrology and the Acta. Maximin was an opponent of Arianism,Athanasius, Epistolae Aeg. 8.336f. and was supported by the courts of Constantine II and Constans, who harboured as an honored guest Athanasius twice during his exile from Alexandria, in 336-37, before he was bishop, and again in 343. In the Arian controversy he had begun in the party of Paul of Constantinople; however, he took part in the synod of Sardica convoked by Pope Julius I (ca. 342), and when four Arian bishops consequently came from Antioch to Trier with the purpose of winning Emperor Constans to their side, Maximinus refused to receive them and induced the emperor to reject their proposals.
VenerationMaximin was interred in the cemetery outside the northern gate of Trier, where his remains were joined by later bishops in the multi-chambered crypt of a church dedicated to John the Evangelist, later rededicated as St. Maximin's Abbey, Trier. Gregory of ToursGregory, De gloria confessorum, xciii, published in Patrologia Latina lxii, cc, 898ff, noted by Warren Sanderson, "The Early Mediaeval Crypts of Saint Maximin at Trier", The Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 24.4 (December 1965:03-310) p.305, note 11. already attests to the cult of Maximin in the church of Saint John Evangelist and the cult offered at his grave. The Abbey — destroyed by Normans in 882, and rebuilt, then entirely re-built in the 1680s, secularised in 1802, bombed in World War II and since largely demolished — was one of the oldest in western Europe.In iconology Maximin was identifiable portrayed as a bishop, with book, model of a church, and, borrowing from the legend of Corbinian, a bear carrying the Saint's travelling pack. As a patron, Maximin was invoked as protection against perjury, loss at sea and destructive rains.  His cultus was strongest in the region around Trier and in Alsace.Medieval legend conflated him with a Maximinus, who was added to the Seventy Apostles referred to in the Gospel of Luke. That Maximin was said to have accompanied Mary Magdalene and a company of the faithful to Aix-en-Provence, miraculously sped by a frail boat without a rudder or a mast. The thirteenth-century telling of the legend can be read in Jacobus de Voragine's Legenda Aurea   The cultus of Mary Magdalene and this Saint Maximin in Provence was centered at Saint-Maximin-la-Sainte-Baume.  Other communes in France named Saint-Maximin commemorate one or the other Saints Maximin.
