The Hohe Domkirche St. Peter in Trier is the oldest Episcopal Church in Germany and the mother Church of the diocese of Trier. With a length of 112.5 meters and a width of 41 meters, the significant sacred building of Western architecture is the largest Church building in the city of Trier.Since 1986, the Cathedral of Trier is part of the UNESCO world heritage Roman monuments, Cathedral and liebfrauen Church in Trier, the Further he is a protected cultural property under the Hague Convention.Cathedral Of Trier
The Cathedral stands on the remains of a splendid Roman house. In the Wake of the Emperor Constantine, initiated the "Constantinian turning point" to Christianity, was built a Basilica, which was under the Bishop Maximin (329-346) to one of the largest Church facilities in Europe with four basilicas, a baptistery and several outbuildings expanded. 340 the so-called Quadratbau, the core of the dome with four monumental columns from the Odenwald (Domstein).
As the core of the medieval settlement of the Cathedral of Trier was since 1843 in the interest of archaeological research. Larger excavations took place, especially after the Second world war, under the Director of the Episcopal Cathedral and diocesan Museum, Theodor K. Kempf, and his successor, Winfried Weber to 1981. In the oldest layers of the on-site noble Roman residential quarter of the 2 could. and 3. Century ad are found. This includes, among other things, a realm with wall - and ceiling paintings decorated ceremonial room with cassette.Erika Simon: The Constantine ceiling paintings in Trier. Zabern, Mainz 1986, ISBN 3-8053-0903-1 (Trier contributions to antiquity customer 3). Under the present transept of the Cathedral, parts of the building are preserved, the reconstructed frescoes in the Cathedral and diocesan Museum. The rich amenities has led to the fact that the plant is attributed in part to a late antique Palace construction.The residential development was built in the early 4. Century, demolished and leveled. In its place was built a double Church with two East-facing, three-aisled basilicas, of which the column positions have been detected. The pillars of the North Basilica consisted of Odenwald granite,to be Precise, actually a Mela-quartz diorite, see Erwin Nickel: Odenwald. The front of the Odenwald between Darmstadt and Heidelberg. Bornträger, Berlin/ Stuttgart, 1985 (collection of geological guides 65) p. 20. what today is still in front of the Cathedral lying Domstein points. The Domstein very similar pillar is in the late-Roman stone quarries in the sea of rock in the Lauter valley. The expansion of the two Church plants, including the cross-structures and Peristylhöfe is not completely secured, and was probably between 40 (North Basilica) and 30 m (Südbasilika under the present Church of our lady) in width with a length of 150 m. Between the two churches, a square baptistery, which is marked today in the pavement of the Domfreihofs was. In front of the choir of the North Basilica octagonal building remains were uncovered, which was interpreted by the excavators as Mr memory (a storage place for relics).Towards the end of the fourth century, the Northern Basilica was rebuilt after it was destroyed again and in the area of the crossing a Quadratbau with a side length of 41.5 m built. In the middle of this building is an elevated Podium, at the four corners have been used as a replacement for fire broken granite columns, re-used columns (spolia]) from limestone. The decoration of the capitals, they could have come from the temple of the Lord in Brno.Heinz cuppers, in: H. cuppers (ed.): The Romans in Rhineland-Palatinate. P. 593. Along the wind street on the North side of the Cathedral, the associated brick masonry up to a height of 30 m is visible.To see the Roman buildings, the Cathedral of Trier Hans-Peter Kuhnen: Dom and loving women: the beginnings of The Trier Bishop's Church. In: H.-P. Kuhnen (Hrsg.): Roman Trier. Theiss, Stuttgart, 2001, (leader to archaeological monuments in Germany, 40), p. 114-121; Winfried Weber: ancient Church in the area of Dom and loving women. In: Heinz Cuppers (Ed.): The Romans in Rhineland-Palatinate. P. 633f.; Sabine Faust: Dom and loving women: early Christian Church to the new. In: Rheinisches Landesmuseum Trier (Hrsg.): Leader to archaeological monuments of the Trierer country. Trier 2008, (publication series of the Rhenish land Museum of Trier 35) p. 44f.
Means alterdie Church plant of the 4. Century was destroyed by the Franks, the Quadratbau and the Northern Basilica rebuilt. Further destruction took place can 882 by the Normans.From the office of the Bishop Egbert, the Cathedral was expanded and redesigned. The West façade is a typical example of the architecture under the Saliern. The Western choir was consecrated in 1121.Exterior changes brought the end of the middle ages. Archbishop Balduin of Luxembourg was around 1350, the two Osttürme increase and Archbishop Richard von Greiffenklau to increase Vollrads after 1512 the southwest tower, because the tower of the parish Church of St. Gangolf dominates the ' Dom ' Church tower.
Modern times at the beginning of the 18th century. Century, the earlier planned heiltum chapel, the monumental structure with a pilgrim stairs in the Interior of the Ostchores, was grown. There, the Holy robe is kept. After a fire of the roof on the 17. In August 1717 the Cathedral from 1719 to 1723, it was remodelled by Johann Georg Judas, and received the cross house, the Osttürme were provided with a Baroque dome.In the 19th century. Century were made several restorations, which had set itself the target of the medieval appearance of to restore; so you replaced in 1883, the Baroque dome of the Osttürme by neo-Gothic. In the Second world war, the Kordeler sand stone of the existing Cathedral was seriously damaged, but could be built relatively quickly.From 1960 to 1974, he was thoroughly restored, and on 1. May 1974, re-opened.Above the Church clock in the elevated South-East tower of the Latin Text "nescitis qua hora dominus veniet" (ye know not at what hour the Lord will), a reference to the Bible passage "vigilate ergo quia nescitis qua hora Dominus vester venturus sit" (Wake up! Because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming). According to a legend, it is in the Tradition of the quarrel between Bishop and city in response to the Text on the tower of St. Gangolf, where it says "vigilate et orate!" (Watch and pray!), a number of times in the New Testament, used turn.On 4. May 2008 was held the first beatification in the Cathedral of Trier. Blessed mother Rosa, the founder of the forest wide Bacher Franciscan was spoken of inside of the blessed virgin Mary of the angels.
Relics and GrabmälerDer sacred Rock is the most famous relic in the Cathedral Treasury. It is kept in a cultivation under a protective glass in a wood container and only very rarely presented to the Public, similar to the shroud of Turin.In the Cathedral, numerous tombs of former archbishops of Trier, such as Balduin of Luxembourg, Richard of Greiffenklau to Vollrads and Theodoric of Wied.With the Andreas-Tragaltar of the Bishop Egbert of Trier Cathedral has one of the most important works of art ottonian goldsmiths ' art.An ivory plaque of Oriental origin, which had served as the side wall of a reliquary box and the emergence of most of the to researchers to 6. Century, is dated, is not in a confined space to less than 65 persons between the two monumental buildings.Balthasar Fischer: The ivory tablet of Trier Cathedral Treasury. In: Kur-Trier, Spanish Yearbook 1969, hrg from the city library of Trier and the society for useful research, 9. Born in 1969. Printing and publishing New & co., Trier in 1969. P. 5ff.
The swallow's nest organ at the Trier Cathedral is an Instrument of the Bonn-based Organ Builder Klais, it was at the same time with the renovated Cathedral on 1. May 1974 dedicated. The Cathedral organist Wolfgang Oehms created MRP consists of 67 registers, four manuals and Pedal and the playing of organ music of all stylistic periods to the avant-garde.In the base of the organ is a representation of the shepherd God Pan as the inventor of the pan flute, if you like a primitive predecessor of the organ that can be worked out by the organist from the housing, and five own sounds wants to play. The figure can music be interpreted because of their horns as a devil, was forced by an organ Builder, for the glory of God; a truly harmonious music, but the devil is not possible, and the five pipes of the pan flute are out of tune considerably:
ChororgelIm year 1996 was also built by the company Klais, Bonn, a choir organ, which is located on the South wall of the Ostchores and on the underlying mezzanine; this organ was designed as a swallow's nest organ. You can be of a mechanical game table within the swallow's nest, or a electric game table in close proximity to the choir podium in the high choir of the Cathedral. Your 25 Register on 2 manuals and Pedal are distributed to the following Disposition:
Chest organ of the Ostkrypta in addition, a chest organ of the company Link from Giengen an der Brenz with a in case of b0/h0 split Manual, its Disposition includes been located since 1994 in the Ostkrypta of the Domes:
Historical GeläutBis 1942/1944 was in the tower, an important Peal. Part 1942 bells for military purposes, had to be delivered. The remaining bells were destroyed in an air RAID in 1944.
I Helena 1628 NICHOLAS CHAPEL,FRANZ and MAGNUS BRUTEL 2360. 8100 fis0 main peal
II Maternus 1628 NICHOLAS CHAPEL, FRANZ and MAGNUS BRUTEL 1962. 4500 a0 main peal
III Maternus 1516 HANS OF BRYSICH and DEDERICH WOLF OF PRÜM 1720 3343 h0 main peal
IV Mary in 1516 HANS OF BRYSICH and DEDERICH WOLF OF PRÜM 1490 in 1989, C-sharp1 to C main peal
V Helena 1553 DEDERICH WOLF OF PRÜM 1020 approx. 650 gis1 soloist, largely table
VI Hosanna to 1500 Heinrich WOLF VON PRÜM 880 approx. 420 gis1 as a soloist, hour strike
VIII Lambertus 1682 MATTHIAS CROMMEL 397. 45 c3 quarter-hour strike Large bell in the casting pit (1951)
Today's BestandDas ten-part Domgeläut counts – in relation to the weight of the largest Peals in Germany, and was cast as a replacement for the in the Second world war destroyed the historical six-part Peal, in 1951, by the bell foundry Otto in Bremen-Hemelingen. The Disposition of the former Director of music Dr John classes, designed 1946.Since 1998, a differentiated läuteordnung läuteordnung of the Trier Cathedral (Stand: 28 exists. April 2009, 12:15 PM, PDF document), which consistently on the Church year and to the musical requirements of the peal outside recording of the full geläuts (10. July 2008, YouTube Video)Inside the Plenum (16. April 2010, 16:40 PM, YouTube-Video)inside the receiving part peal fis°–a° (16. April 2010, 16:30, YouTube-Video). From 1999 to 2001, the Peal was restored, with all the bells received new yokes made of wood and new bobbin. In the course of this Work, the Weights have not been determined, as the original slips of the foundry are currently to be found. The steel bell chair is at the height of the top of the sound openings of the high tower.
1 Christ &#38; Helena in 1951, bell foundry, Otto 2273 7970 fis0 +7 now unto the king eternal, immortal, invisible, sole God, the price and the glory from eternity to eternity. Amen. By Saint Helena, the Empress and patron Saint of Trier. In order for this to happen, I'll ring the bell. O king of glory, Christ, come with Your peace. Better is to put his trust in the Lord to put his trust in a people, it is better to trust in the Lord, as the Prince.
2 Maria 1951 bell foundry, Otto 1911 4480 a0 +2 For the honor of the Queen of peace, Received, undefiled and Taken up in the sky I raise my voice. Sagittarius, the Trier of the people and the city. Not the king wins with a large army, and the War does not save itself with a great Power.
3 Peter 1951 bell foundry Otto 1707 3500 h0 +1 Peter, the key bearer of the Kingdom, shooter this temple that is consecrated to him. Who stands in the shelter of the most high, who speak in the shadow of the Almighty dwells, to the Lord, my refuge You my fortress, my God, in You do I trust.
4 Eucharius, Valerius &#38; Maternus 1951 bell foundry Otto 1524 2600 C-sharp1 to C +4 Eucharius, Valerius and Maternus, I am dedicated to. I exhort you, that ye imitators are Your fathers and you reminded of the deeds that you have done. How lovely are the messengers upon the mountains are the feet of the joy, the peace, heralds, and good tidings brings.
5 Matthias 1951 bell foundry Otto 1438 2060 d1 +2 O Matthias, Patron of the Treves diocese, a portion of the Apostolic Would get that through Your entreaties, that we may praise You without end, the king of glory. And the lot fell on Matthias and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
6 Niketius 1951 bell foundry Otto 1280 1450 e1 +4 Of the Holy Angels, the Trier Bishop, of the re-producer of this temple praise I proclaim. I ask that he is devastated by the war, and again restored the house to the length of the days get. Lord, hear the petitions and grant that each one of us,the entrance into this temple, to beg Your good deeds, the granting of delight.
7 Agritius 1951 bell foundry Otto 1140 1010 fis1 +3 And we have four small bells, their voices in the praise of our great sisters. Holy Agritius, in this Cathedral the first Bishop.
8 Maximinus 1951 bell foundry Otto 954 590 a1 +3 Saint Maximinus, Bishop, the great defender of the faith.
9 Paulinus 1951 bell foundry Otto 843 400 h1 +1 Holy Paulinus, Bishop and Martyr, bravest defender of the faith.
10 Ambrose 1951 bell foundry Otto 757 280 cis2 -1 Saint Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, born in Trier.
Domstein at the Trier Cathedral in Trier, Lautertal]] in the Odenwald. In front of the main entrance to the Cathedral, a 4-metre-long granite pillar, the so-called Domstein. According to a legend, the devil is said to have been prompted with a List to Use in the construction of the Cathedral. As the Dom was ready, he realized that he had been betrayed and flung the stone against the walls. In fact, the old granite columns were damaged during the migration of peoples by fire and had to in the 6. Century will be replaced by limestone pillars. One of the replaced pillars and stopped in front of the southwest portal, and not more was later removed.A copy of the 65-ton columns from the Odenwald Granit is located in the Cathedral adjacent to the Episcopal Cathedral and diocesan Museum.
Bishop chapel between 1245 and 1270, the Gothic cloister, made a connection from the Cathedral to the Church of our lady.The Cathedral of Trier In the West of the cloister the Bishop's chapel (in earlier times, "Paul chapel"), embedded in the floor of a tomb was for the canons of the Cathedral. Today, this place is a stone slab, which is characterized by containing a small peep window, on her OSSUARY MCMXCI.Ossuary under the Bishop's chapel. Since about 1870, the present auxiliary Bishop chapel serves as the burial place of the auxiliary in Trier. The Altar in the Bishop's chapel shows in the Antependium, the "sweat-cloth of Veronica" with the face of Christ.The Altar in the Bishop's chapel. On the Northern outside wall of the chapel is a bell, the gekleppt only to the funerals of canons and weihbisc stations depends will beat (one-sided). The bell belonged to the Domuhr and was used until 1927 to Strike the quarter-hours.The Trier Domgeläute in history and the present.
Church from the music care of the choir music is done by the Director of music, Stephan Rommelspacher, as well as the Cathedral Cantor, Thomas pine. Since 1994, Joseph is Still organist of the High Cathedral of Trier.
Chapter today the Trier domgeist the rule of law from two Dignitären, (Cathedral Provost Werner roessel and Dean of the Cathedral, Franz-Josef't Gebert), eight resident Domkapitularen and four resident Domkapitularen; add to this six Domvikare. All have priestly ordination, and play in the General Vicariate, of the faculty of Theology and Caritas play a significant role. The Trier Cathedral Chapter exists since the middle of the 6. Century, was in the middle ages, a moderately comprehensive, and could prevail with the Bishop to the essential sovereignty rights. Starting in 1289, it consisted only of nobles.In the present Form it was at 25. July, 1884 installed. The Provost is the supervisor of all the Cathedral staff (for example, Director of music, Cathedral organist), and lives in the close to the Cathedral (Domfreihof 4) located Dompropstei. The Dean of the Cathedral for the planning and Celebration of the divine services in the Cathedral jurisdiction.The Trier Cathedral Chapter in the cultural struggle in the 19th century. Century, national socialism and the question of the Saar in the 20th century. Century an important partner role for the Bishop and the diocese leadership played. Its importance also emerged on the occasion of the Holy-Rock-exhibitions, 1810, 1844, 1891, 1933, 1959 and 1996 in a special way. In its meeting of 26. In June 1995, the Cathedral Chapter adopted a number of new statutes, the Bishop of Trier, 29. June 1995 was confirmed.
Regular exhibitions and concerts are held in the Cathedral, such as the International organ days every year in may and June, a point of attraction for many music lovers.
