The Nigella damascena (Nigella damascena) is an annual Plant of the Buttercup family (Ranunculaceae). The Mediterranean-based Plant in Central Europe, commonly cultivated garden plant.
Name NThe Genus Name Nigella (Lat. about Nigellus = black) refers to the black-colored seeds. The Designation damascena translated means "from Damascus to arise" and is seen by the botanist Heinz-Dieter Krausch as evidence that it was introduced on the commercial relations of Venice with the middle East in Central Europe.The maid in the Green, which was formerly a common garden plant, bears a number of German names. These include Gretl in the perennials, Gretchen Bush, Venus, hairy, bride, hair, and Damascus black cumin, damask cumin and garden-black cumin. It is, however, not with the caraway or cumin seeds related, but belongs to the same genus as the black cumin (Nigella sativa).The Name Gretl in the perennials plays on an Austrian to Say, to renounce the rich farmer's daughter Gretl your love to the keuschler son Hans at the request of the father had to. After they were consumed in longing for each other, they were transformed into flowers. While Gretl was the bridesmaid in the Green, depending on the Region from Hans the bird knotweed, or common chicory, both in the vernacular the name of Hansl on the way.
It forms an erect, up to about 45 centimetres high, and branched stems. The leaves are deciduous, pinnate-piece, and very greatly reduced.
Flowering nThe flowers, which form the branched stems that are surrounded by a ring of hair in the shape of zerschlitzter bracts. Flowering time is June to August.The hermaphrodite flower is fünfzählig. The perianth consists of large, usually blue, but occasionally pink or white coloured tepals. Inside five small, double lip honey leaves follow. It is the numerous stamens consequences. The five carpels to the fruit of a upper continuous, and roller-shaped node coalescence, which is characterized fünffächrig. Only the stylus. The Lack of division into sepals and petals is characteristic of plants for many representatives of the family of the Buttercup. There are also Ornamental varieties with double flowers, which honey petals and/or stamens tepals.
BestäubungDie maid in Green is one of the pre-ännlichen plants, in the first the stamens Mature. With this so-called Proterandrie the Plant prevents self-pollination. Mature anthers are bent down and opened the bag. An insect that takes on the nectaries nectar, eingestäubt on his back through the downwardly opening dust bag with Pollen. The stylus of the ovary in flowers in the male stage, however, was still upright. You bend only during the flowering period by a growth movement of the Plant downwards. In the female stage of flowering, when all the dust bags are emptied, are bent the stylus down so far that visiting insects at the end of the on your back brought Pollen to the drooping scars of the stylus scraping. As pollinating insects, Bumble bees and bees, especially in the question of the reach due to their long suction tubes to the nectar. Suspended if the flowers are flying occasionally to observe. They lick only the Pollen and play in the pollination of not matter.
In pollinated flowers, the ovary develops to fruit of a three-centimeter-long Capsule. With increasing maturity, the fruit walls to dry out more and more until you are parchment-like. Almost Mature capsules have wide, purple longitudinal stripes. Fully Mature capsules are light brown and open in late summer as a result of the dehydration on top with usually five columns, which are approximately seven millimeters long. The fruit capsule contained cross-wrinkled seeds are black colored, as it is this species-typical.To the spread of the seeds, the Plant uses the movement by Wind or grazing animals; it is, therefore, as Wind and animal - faithful (Semachorie). Several design features support this dispersal mechanisms. The flower stems at the time of the capsule are Mature for slightly longer than during the flowering period and very elastic. The bubbles raised and light capsule serves as a Windscreen, so that the entire Plant is moved by a weak Wind. The capsule has angled a tip that extended and hakige stylus, which can easily become caught in the fur of a passing grazing animal so that the Plant is entrained and the releasing springs back. By the movement of the seeds to be thrown out of the narrow columns.
From the seeds of the Jungfer in the Green, up to 10 percent of essential Oil can be obtained. In this Oil, in particular, Damascenin are included with a proportion of one-tenth of alkaloids.The pharmacist and physician Ernst Mutschler received his habilitation in 1964, at the Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz with the topic, chemistry and pharmacology of the alkaloids Damascenin and Arecoline.
VerbreitungDas original area of distribution of the bridesmaid in the Green of the Mediterranean; the species occurs in southern Europe, Asia minor and North Africa. Also in the Canary Islands, is home. In its natural distribution area it grows on culture and the Barrens. Through trade and sowing was in early modern times as an Ornamental plant in the gardens of Central Europe. From these gardens, you is wild in a few Central European sites, as a so-called garden refugee and occurs in debris weeds companies. Feral herds there are in Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Germany and the Czech Republic.As annuals for Bedding and balcony plant that is cultivated in the world today.
The oldest known illustration can be found in an Italian manuscript from the 14th century. Century, which is now in the British Museum in London. As a garden plant in the first half of the 16th century. Century mentioned. The first mention in the German language area comes from Hieronymus Bock in 1539. Leonhart Fuchs, described the species in his "New Kreüterbuch" in 1543 as a "Black-and-Coriander" and introduced you to the "Nigellen". The name damascena, or from Damascus to arise was used in 1561 by the Zurich physician and botanist Conrad Gesner. John Franke gave her 1594 the name Melanthium Damascenum, or "Unusual, black cumin". Carl von Linné to handle 1753, in his nomenclature, the name damascenum as a species name, the species but in the genus Nigella.In the second half of the 16th century. Century was widespread, the Plant is very frugal, in German gardens. By the end of the 16th century. Century there was a Form with double flowers, the varieties with white or pink flowers developed in the decades after that. The blue-flowered Form, however, remained the most widely used, by Johann Christian Gottlob Lipsiensis Baumgarten, in his Flora wrote that she waxes everywhere gardens in the Kitchen. Most frequently you'll be drawn, however, in the gardens of the suburbanites and the rural population.With the introduction of color prächtigerer and auffälligerer summer flowers, the bridesmaid in Green came increasingly out of fashion. In 1900, described by Carl August Bolle this flower as old-fashioned. Today the Plant is popular as a typical cottage garden flower. It can be because of the long durability, good for bouquets. The seed capsules are suitable for dry bouquets.
Use in herbal medicine and as a spice bridesmaid in Green, is blowing in the Natural medicine as a urinary, worm driving, expectorant and carminative. Evidence of the impact through recognised clinical trials are not yet available.The Oil from the seeds of the Jungfer in the Green is used for the manufacture of perfumes and lipsticks. Finely ground seeds have an intense fish flavor. They can be used in the kitchen for the refinement of desserts. Because of the contained Alkaloid Damascenin that works in Overdose is toxic, use in the kitchen, however, uncommon.
SymbolikIn the symbol language of the maid in Green is one of the classic flowers of scorned love. Young women reported the spurned suitors to understand your rejection by this flower. The Form in which this was done varied from region to region. In the Canton of Zurich, the Sending of a bridesmaid in the Green was a clear Signal of the rejection of an applicant. In other regions, was sent to the applicant a basket, in the next to the maid in the Green, other dismissal signalling the end of flowers and herbs, such as yarrow, cornflower, eyebright and chicory were.=
