BiografiaLe his origins and date of birth are not known. After different researches it has been accepted as the date of his death, the 328, by an altar late middle ages in relation to the cathedral of Trier. He was probably buried in Trier, which claims the presence in the base of the altar late middle ages in relation. This tradition should be taken with caution as that of the Maternal as the founder of the diocese of Tongeren.The colony has ever had, probably, the relics of a saint of a mother, while already towards the 760 you spoke of the relics of san Materno in Trier. The so-called pastoral of the San Materno is kept in the treasure chamber of the Cologne Cathedral and is still used on occasions religiously important. Maternal took part in the synod of the lateran in 313 in Rome and of Arles of 314 as a representative of the emperor Constantine the Great, from this emerged its importance also outside of the provinces, and German. There was the peacemaker, in contrast, was born into the Church because of the heresy donatistaSanti,blesseds and witnesses-San's Maternal ColoniaAi the time of bishop Breast was pope Sylvester I. After the Donation of Constantine, which proved, subsequently, a fake, the Church had to be compensated by Constantine himself, of persecution, and for this, among other with the Lateran palace in Rome. The emperor also built the church of the Redeemer, which is the present-day Basilica of San Giovanni in Laterano. The pope consecrated the first church of St. Peter in 326.Breast was always appealed to in the disputes of rank among the dioceses of Trier and Cologne: presumably he was in possession of the crosier of Saint Peter, which gave the measure of the rank of the most ancient church in Germany. Many medieval churches were dedicated to him., as well as the Maternihospital (Hospital of san Materno) in Dresden.
LeggendeUna before, and the old legend wants that san Materno has lived in The first century. He would have been the deceased son of the widow of Naim, resurrected by GesùVangelo according to Luke, 7, 11-17. =C. E. I.&refer=Luca7 show]Was posted by saint Peter together with two other disciples, Valerio and Eucherio, in Gaul and in Germany for evangelizzarne populations. The discrepancy in the dates makes it clear that or it is another Breast or the legend is without foundation. However, in the myth, the legendary, the two figures (apart from the truth of the actual existence of the first), are often confused. In any case, san Materno, are attributed the evangelization of the Alsace (erection of a church to Ehl, the ancient roman garrison of Ellelum or Helvetum, today Benfeld; for the sanctuary of Dompeter (St. Peter) to Molsheim; of the church of SanPietro Old in Strasbourg, and others) as well as the cities of Tongeren, Huy, Dinant, Ciney, Namur et Walcourt, in the present Belgium. He would also have given rise to the foundation of the city of Waremme and built places of worship in Namêche, à Leffe or to Foy-Notre-Dame. Its presence is also reported in Maastricht.The popular tradition attributes to him numerous miracles and extraordinary events. So to Ciney he would have raised five children drowned, the sons of a certain prince clement, who governed the city, resulting in the conversion to christianity of him and his entire family.To Walcourt Breast would have carved with your own hands a statue of the Virgin Mary, and, finally, it would be him to give the origin of the name of the city of Namur: he would, in fact, reduced to silence, a pagan idol called the Nam, thus giving the city the name of Nam-Mutus (Nam-dumb), who was then Namur.According to another legend, for Ehl in Alsace, Maternal, exhausted from the trip, he died. His disciples, unable to give to his presence, and returned to Rome to seek the pastoral staff of St. Peter, found it, and thanks to it were able to revive the mother. This legend obviously refers to the Mother, allegedly sent by St Peter, that is, who lived in The first century. In the FOURTEENTH century, the tradition of lorraine attributed this resurrection to saint Clement of Metz: this assignment is part of likely in the rivalry then existing between the dioceses of Metz and Trier. Villes et bourgs de Lorraine: réseaux urbains et centralité au Moyen Âge, p.453, Jean-Luc Fray 2006.
San Materno, he was invoked against fevers, contagious diseases, and to promote the growth of the vine.His liturgical memorial falls on the 14th of September, but in some places it is celebrated on the 20th and the other on the 25th of the same month.
