Salini Impregilo SpA is the main Italian group of building and public works, whose head office is located in Milan. A turnover of 4.7 billion euros in 2015.The group Salini Impregilo is a specialist in building technology, engineering. He creates works of art and large scale work in the world, as dams and hydroelectric power plants, canals, and locks like the Panama canal, the railways and high speed lines, metros, airports, motorways, tunnels and viaducts, all of the residential buildings and industrial.It ranks the first place among Italian companies working in the world.Rapporto ANCE 2015 sulla presenza delle imprese di costruzioni italiane nel mondo http://www.ance.it/docs/docDownload.aspx?id=27996 Report DENCE 2015 on the presence of engineering companies-civil Italian in the world
HistoireLe group Salini Impregilo is the combination of two very old Italian companies : Salini and Impregilo, which took place with effect from 1 January 2014. The project was born in 2011 with the entry of Salini capital of Impregilo. A friendly TAKEOVER bid finalized the merger in April 2013.
History of ImpregiloImpregilo was an independent company, listed on the Milan stock exchange. Its social capital is of 716 million euros and the company had an order book that amounts to more than € 13 billion. The company Impregilo was the result of the merger, in 1990, construction companies and engineering Italian Fiat Impresit SpA, Cogefar SpA, Girola SpA and Lodigiani SpA.
Impre for Impresit, im for Girola, lo to Lodigiani. Since 1929, the Fiat group SpA had a specialized sector in major civil engineering works and the construction of factories, Fiat Impresit.
At the end of 1989 Fiat Impresit and Cogefar, another major Italian company of construction merge to create Cogefar-Impresit. A few years later, in 1995, the companies Girola and Lodigiani, with which Fiat Impresit, often worked to l ;foreign countries, join the new entity and of the group Impregilo SpA (Impre-Gi-Lo). D ;other companies were then redeemed as company d ;engineering Castelli.
In 1998, the company comes out of the bosom of the Fiat group to incorporate the group Gemina, a financial holding company created by Cesare Romiti, former chief executive of the Fiat group.
Since April 2005, approximately 30 % of the share capital is sold to the Italian group igli among SpA following the transfer of the share held by Gemina, up ;then the reference shareholder of the group.
In 2006, Fisia Italimpianti and its subsidiary Fisia Babcock GMBH are back in the fold d ;Impregilo SpA to 100 %. The voice persisted in the financial community argue that groups Impregilo and Astaldi SpA, the two majors of the sector in Italy are going to merge. There ;will be nothing against Gemina sells the balance of its interest in Impregilo group igli among SpA.
Between February 2007 and the end of year 2011, the group's capital igli among is evenly distributed between its 3 shareholders : the companies Argofin of the group Gavio SpA, the Beltway SpA of the family Benetton and Immobiliare Lombarda group Ligresti.
At the end of year 2011, an agreement between the three shareholders of igli among the SpA is found, the group Gavio, buys the shares of the other two shareholders and became the sole owner. The operation is formalized on march 6, 2012.
In 2012, the company Salini SpA, with money, wants to accelerate its external growth and buys in the stock exchange a stake of 29.9% of the company Impregilo and becomes the reference shareholder, as the group Gavio. Salini proposes to ride to the capital, to merge the two companies.
In February 2012, Salini SpA launches a TAKEOVER bid on Impregilo and collects 86.5 percent of the shares. The merger is approved by the board of directors of the two companies in September 2013 and becomes effective January 1, 2014. The group found the listing of its shares on the Milan stock exchange in June 2014.
History of SaliniL'company Salini SpA was created in Rome in 1936 by Pietro Salini. The company grew slowly as a lot of family businesses, without external growth ambitious until 1980. It developed on the Italian market, but is interested very quickly to foreign markets, the Italian colonies in particular.The first achievement of the company will be a 100,000 seater stadium that the Duce wanted to welcome Adolf Hitler to Rome. The first major operation abroad will be the development of the area of Tana Beles in Ethiopia with the construction of 250 km of roads, 200 km of drinking water networks, 50 bridges and rehabilitation of 20,000 hectares in just two years of work.Followed of important projects of highways in Georgia, Belarus and Turkey and of the Stockholm metro to 1.7 billion d'€uros. In association with Impregilo, since 2009, she directs the doubling of the Panama canal, the most important work of the XXI century. The commissioning is expected in summer 2016. With the acquisition of the company Todini SpA in 2009, the company became the third group of constructions in Italian. With the acquisition of the group Impregilo, the group Salini-Impregilo is without context the first of the peninsula by turnover.
Railways, normal and high speed as the line Alta Velocità-Alta Capacità 3rd passge of Giovi : Tortona/Novi Ligure-Genoa (TGV) or the Bandwidth rail-Milan
The main réalisationsLes projects in which the companies Fiat Impresit, Impregilo, Impregilo-Cogefar or Salini-Impregilo now have attended include public service buildings, highways, airports, systems of capture, transportation and water supply, waste disposal, hospitals, and the development of the territory. In addition to the construction of almost all plants of the Fiat group in the world, the most important works are:
in association with the Spanish company Sacyr Vallehermoso, belgium's Jan de Nul and the panamanian Cusa, Salini-Impregilo has won l ;call d ;offerings to the Panama canal expansion due to be completed in 2016 Panama Canal Announces 'Best Value' Proposal for New Set of Locks Expansion Contract. After the dispute between Sacyr and the government of Panama at the end of year 2013, Salini-Impregilo has taken the direction of the grouping of construction and has signed a new agreement ;the extension of l ;work with the supply of locks mechanized by a company italienne.[http://www.4-traders.com/SALINI-IMPREGILO-SPA-160071/news/Salini-Impregilo-Panama-Canal-Expansion-ndash-final-agreement-signed-Salini-Impregilo-leader-of-18844693/
The hydroelectric plant of Kárahnjúkavirkjun is located 90 km south west of the town of Egilsstadir, in the eastern part of the country. It is currently the most important work built in Iceland.
A system of 3 dams collects the melting waters of the glaciers and the river Jokulsa a Dal in the basin Halslòn and transports this water through a penstock from 73 km up to the underground station of 690 MW.
In July 2013, the group Salini-Impregilo in j-v with the companies Shimmick Construction (USA) and FCC Construction (Spagna), has won the tender as General Contractor for the design and construction of the new bridge, “Gerald Desmond” in Long Beach, California. The overall size of the market is $ 650 million. This new suspension bridge will have a total length of 610 metres with a central span of 300 metres and comprises an access viaduct of more than 2 kilometres.The project has a high level of technical complexity it is not common. The market requires that the road and rail traffic that uses the existing bridge should be maintained as well as the river traffic passes under the bridge. The construction works are planned over 4 years.
The group was the successful tenderer for the construction of the new line of underground metro Cityringen in the city centre of Copenhagen long-17.4 km with 17 stations.
The group is also the holder, with Ansaldo STS to the market of the design and construction of line 3 of the metro of Riyadh in Saudi Arabia, long-41.6 km.
Impregilo was the lead partner in the consortium of companies for the project of construction of the Messina Bridge, which has been revived by the President of the Italian Council, Silvio Berlusconi, on march 6, 2009. Impregilo up on infrastructure hopes. Reuters 9 March 2009..
The bridge of Messina In October 2005, the group Impregilo, lead contractor of a consortium of companies, was declared winner of the international tender launched by the Italian State for the financing and construction of the Bridge over the strait of Messina, beating on the wire the other group in contention, the Italian Astaldi SpA. The total amount of the contract was from 3.88 billion euros. The project and the work had to be completed in 70 months (6 years).
The global marketplace has been signed by the first Berlusconi government on 27 march 2006.The approval of the definitive project and, therefore, execution plans by the inter-ministerial Committee of the Italian economic programming (CIPE) and by the concession company "Stretto di Messina" led by Impregilo, had to intervene under 10 months after the signature of the global market. During this period of time, that is to say, until the summer of 2007, the Italian government and the society "Stretto di Messina S. p. A." could abandon the project. The abandonment of the project by the Italian government included a penalty increasing with the date on which this decision would be made and notified to the parties.It was in October of 2007 the Italian Parliament, elections that changed the majority Berlusconi, voted to abandon the project and the dissolution of the company Stretto di Messina. The proposal of the majority and of the Prodi government was not successful, because of the refusal of the party Italia dei Valori, Antonio Di PietroDéclarations Antonio Di Pietro (minister of Infrastructure in the government Prodi II), 28 October 2007, who wanted to integrate the company Stretto di Messina in the Azienda Nazionale Autonoma delle Strade (ANAS), a form of Direction of the equipment the Italian.
In 2000, the company's Fibe created during the consolidation of the processing activities of household garbage companies Fisia, Impregilo, Babcock and Evo Oberrhausen, is designated successful bidder following the tender of State for the attainment of all household waste incineration of the region and of the collection of waste. The companies Fibe and Fibe Campania are the companies belonging to the group Fisia-Italimpianti, controlled 100 % by Impregilo. One of the main reasons for the group Impregilo has won the contract was the reduced duration of study and construction of the incinerator. The times announced were only 300 working days to the realization of the complex of AcerraGabriella Gribaudi, The cycle of household garbage from the Campania region. http://www.mulino.it/ilmulino/anticipazioni/gribaudi_bozza_sito.pdf.
