Salini Impregilo is an Italian group operating in the field of construction and engineering; is active in the construction of dams, hydroelectric plants, hydraulic works, railways and subways, airports and motorways, civil and industrial construction.According to some data, in the first place in the ranking of the main Italian firms operating in the esteroRapporto ANCE 2015 on the presence of Italian construction companies in the world http://www.ance.it/docs/docDownload.aspx?id=27996Rapporto ANCE 2013 on the presence of Italian construction firms in the world
StoriaIl Group Salini Impregilo is the result of the merger by incorporation of Salini SpA into Impregilo SpA, with effect from 1 January 2014Il Sole 24 Ore, June 25, 2013, the "Yes to a merger between Impregilo and Salini".The project, started in 2011 with the entry of Saline in the share capital of Impregilo and finds its fundamental reason in the goal of merging the two realities and with the vocation internazionaleComunicato print Salini Impregilo “Stipulated the deed of merger by incorporation of Salini S.p.A. in Impregilo spa”.The merger was supported by small investors, institutional investors and activists, followed by a report on the voluntary public purchase offer of a totalitarian (OPA) launched by Salini on ImpregiloLa Republic, 11 February 2013, the "tender offer of Impregilo, the moves of Salini and Gavio" and ended definitively in April 2013.
History of ImpregiloL'acronym 'Businesses-gi-lo" was born from the "pact GILT" (Girola, Impresit, Lodigiani, Torno), formed in 1955 for the construction of the dam of Kariba. Finished the dam in 1959, and exit the scene and come Back, the other three companies were, for big jobs abroad, a company dedicated to the Impregilo spa (with equal shares of 33%, plus a 1% to IFI-FIAT so as to ensure a majority and control). Then by Impresit, Girola and Lodigiani was born the name Businesses.Gi.The.Subsequently, in the years 1989 and 1990, Fiat Impresit and Cogefar joined in the Cogefar-Impresit.In 1994 Cogefar-Impresit built-in "Impresit-Girola-Lodigiani SpA" changed its name in IMPREGILO SpA. Subsequently this company acquired the business units of the Lodigiani SpA and Girola SpA. Franco Carraro was one of the presidents (1994-1999).
2005: after l ;the exercise of the call option on the shares held by Gemina, the previous reference shareholder, the capital stock goes to about 30% in Igli spa.
2006: the company Fisia Italimpianti and its subsidiary Fisia Babcock GMBH return the property to 100% of Impregilo. In that period there appeared rumors of a possible merger between Impregilo and Astaldi group S. p.a..
from 2007 to 2011: l ;the shareholding of the majority (29.6% in and signed ;Igli ;) was composed of a shareholders ' agreement in a manner equal to 33%, between the company Argofin (Gavio group), Motorways (the Benetton family) and Immobiliare Lombarda (gruppo Ligresti).
History of SaliniIl Group Salini was born in Rome in 1936, when the founder of the family, Peter, undertakes the task of the manufacturer.In 2009, Salini became the third Italian group in the construction sector, following the acquisition of Todini Costruzioni Generali spa, (first 60% and then 70%). In 2011, the Group starts a project of external growth through the purchase of shares on the open market, the door Salt in the share capital of Impregilo.
June: Saline S.p.A. acquire on the market a stake of Impregilo 29.9% equal to that in the possession of the Gavio Group.
July: l ;the shareholders ' Meeting of Impregilo, also thanks to the collection of proxies of small shareholders favourable to the project, Salini, the resolution on the revocation of directors of Impregilo in office. The next day inaugurated the new Board of Directors. Appointed chief executive officer, Pietro Salini, and Chairman Claudio Costamagna.
September: the Board of Directors of Impregilo start the revival of industrial activity, implementing the Strategic Agreement with Salini to create commercial synergies.
February: Salini S.p.A. launches a Takeover bid on the totality of the ordinary shares of Impregilo it did not already own of 4.00 euro per share. L ;offer is subject to the achievement of a share capital equal to 50% more, a ;ordinary share.Leap of Impregilo after a public tender offer of Salini - The Sun 24 HOURS
April: following the success of the tender offer, Salini reached at the first attempt, the share of 86,5% of the ordinary shares by purchasing them at the price of 4,00 euroImpregilo, closed the tender offer of Salini, the share rises to 86,5% of the share capital - the Economy and Finance with Bloomberg and the new Republic.en .
June: following the approval of the respective boards of directors, on June 24, is formalized by means of the press the project of merger by incorporation of Salini into Impregilo. The name of the new industrial group from January 2014 becomes ‘ ;Salini Impregilo ; that also changes the brand and remains listed on the stock exchange.Merger by incorporation of Salini into Impregilo. Available the plan of Merger
January: the birth of the Group Salini Impregilo. The Group is active in the production of great works through approximately 31,000 employees from 88 nationalities. The Group has a total indicated in the financial year 2013 revenues of approximately € 4 billion and an order backlog amounting to approximately €29 billion, of which 21.9 billion in construction.
June 2014: Even through a capital increase of more than 44 million ordinary shares, with a operation of offering of shares on the market it is reported the share of free float on the market to 40.03% of the share capital ordinario.http://www.salini-impregilo.com/sala-stampa/comunicati-stampa/ristabilito-il-flottante-nella-misura-di-circa-il-40.html
July 2014: as A result of the exercise of the option “overallotment” the ordinary share capital of Salini Impregilo is held for the 38,11% of the market and to the 61,89 % by Salini Costruttori.
High-speed railway line Bologna-FirenzeIl project Railway Bologna-Florence, italy, was completed in 2009 by the Consortium CAVET and consists of a railway line, with standard AV (high-speed) and AC (high capacity), long 78 km, of which 73 km in tunnel.
High-speed railway line Turin-MilanoIl group, through the consorzio CAV TO-MI, has realized the high speed rail Turin-Milan.it grows to a total length of 125 km and is part of the "railway Axis 6' of the conventional rail trans-european TEN-T. In 2006, on the occasion of the Winter Olympics in Turin, was inaugurated the Turin-Novara line; the line Novara-Milan line has entered into operation in 2009.
The Passante di Mestre Motorway A4Il the Passante di Mestre is a stretch of the A4 motorway, long about 33 km.The pass-through is active since July 2009. The construction was carried out by the consortium " Passante di Mestre S. C. p.A.
Motorway Salerno-Reggio CalabriaI contracts, the June 2004 and march 2005, have as their object the General Contractor of the works for the modernization and upgrading of a stretch of the Salerno–Reggio Calabria motorway, a length of 50 km.
These works mainly consist in equipping the highway section, located in the territory of the Province of Reggio Calabria, two lanes 3.75 m. a emergency lane by 3 metres.
Palazzo Lombardia - the New headquarters of the Lombardy Region, MilanoIl the Palazzo Lombardia in Milan is the new headquarters of the Region. The project, initiated in 2006 and completed in 2010, consists of a complex of buildings developed in an area of value 33,700 square meters. The Palazzo Lombardia was designed by Pei Coob Freed & Partners of New York.
Autostrada Pedemontana LombardaNel June 2008, the ATI led by Impregilo, today, Salini Impregilo, is awarded as the General Contractor the final and executive planning and the realization of the first lot of Autostrada Pedemontana Lombarda, that is, the ring roads of Como and Varese and of the road connection between the A8 and A9 motorways (from Cassano Magnago to Lomazzo) .The project includes the creation of about 47 kilometers of motorway traffic and secondary roads, the construction of about 13 km of tunnels and the construction of bridges and viaducts for a total length of approximately 1.7 kilometres.The first is the link between Cassano Magnago (A8) and Lomazzo (A9) was opened to traffic by January 26, 2015http://www.laprovinciadivarese.it/stories/Cronaca/test-foothill-some-grit-ce_1098197_11/the first day of The Pedemontanahttp://www.foothills.com/Binary/Documents/OrdinanzeComunicati/ORDINANZA_N2-2015.pdf while a second is between Lomazzo and Lentate was opened on the 5th of November 2015http://www.varesenews.it/2015/10/pedemontana-il-5-novembre-inaugura-il-tratto-lomazzo-lentate/411395/http://www.varesenews.it/2015/11/pedemontana-si-allunga-inaugurato-il-tratto-fino-a-lentate/415521/http://www.ilgiornale.it/news/milano/pedemontana-avanza-ora-servono-2-miliardi-1191346.html.
Line 4 of the metro of MilanoIl group was awarded the concession for the construction and operation of the new metro line 4 of the city of Milan.
Line B1 of the subway RomaIl group was awarded the concession for the construction of a new stretch of metro line B1 of the city of Rome.
East ring road outside of MilanoIl group, in quality of agent of a company formed by TEM (Tangenziali esterne di Milan) and from other companies is the owner of the convention for the award in the project financing of the concession for the design, implementation and management of the East ring road outside Milan.
In 2000, the FIRE (an acronym obtained from the names of the companies, Fisia, Impregilo, Babcock and Evo, i.e. Energieversorgung Oberhausen AG) was awarded the contract for the state for the entire cycle of collection and disposal of industrial waste in the Campania region. FIBE and FIBE Campania are the companies of the Group Fisia, in turn 100% owned by Salini Impregilo, won the tender thanks to the reduced time of implementation of the incineration plants: the timing of the construction of the incinerator of Acerra contract was 300 days.
In October 2005, the company, the parent company of a consortium of international companies, and Eurolink S. C. p.. he won the international tender for the construction of the bridge on the strait of Messina, beating the last-roped competitor guided by the parent company, Astaldi S. p.a.. The final bid turned out to be 3.88 billion euros, with the project that he considered a time of completion of 70 months. The contract was signed by the Berlusconi government on 27 march 2006.The approval of the final design and, consequently, of the executive project by the inter-Ministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE) and the concessionaire, the Strait of Messina S.p.A. led by group to expire in a defined time in the ten months since the signing of the contract; in this period of time (until summer 2007) the government and the Strait of Messina S.p.A. had the opportunity to withdraw from the deal. The provision of the project by the government would have resulted in the payment of a penalty that increases in relation to the time in which this decision should be communicated to the parties.In the month of October 2007, the parliament voted for the final appropriation of the project and the dissolution of the Stretto di Messina spa the proposal of the majority (Prodi government) was rejected, also due to the contrary vote of the party Italia dei valori, founded by Antonio Di Pietro, Minister of Infrastructure in the Prodi Government II, who had instead proposed to incorporate the Straits of Messina spa in the ANAS. On may 22, 2008 the minister of infrastructure and Transport of the new Berlusconi government invited the Stretto di Messina to resume the activities involved in the construction of the bridge. In the session of 6 march 2009, CIPE decided the appropriation of the State opera, confirmed in 1.3 billion euros, a sum that had been frozen by the previous government. You come to the 23 December 2009 when it is opened the first shipyard of the work in Cannitello on the calabrian coast, in order to divert to the north, a stretch of railway, with the consequent displacement of a gallery, which was hampering the positioning of one of the two towers.On 21 December 2010, the final project was delivered by the general contractor of the work, Eurolink S. C. p.. to the Stretto di Messina to be examined.The bridge on the Strait there is the final project - Palermo - Republic.itIl 29 July 2011, the Minister of Infrastructures and Transport Altero Matteoli communicated the approval of the definitive plan by the Board of Directors of the Company the Strait of Messina. The In October 2011, the Hall of Deputies passed a motion of Idv, which committed the government "to the suppression of the financing of the construction of the bridge over the Strait of Messina" .A year later, on 10 October 2012, the Monti government in the so-called stability law, appropriated 300 million for the payment of the penalties for non-implementation of the project. With the Decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, 15 April 2013, the Straits of Messina S.p.A. was placed in liquidation with the appointment of a Liquidator .
Moving archaeological site Abu SimbelNel 1960 the construction of the great dam of Aswan, the work which provided for the formation of an artificial basin would have caused the loss of many works built by the ancient egyptians, among them the temples of Abu Simbel.Thanks to the intervention of Unesco, 113 countries, the border kicked into action to save the monument.Were made numerous proposals to this end and that, finally, gained the greatest acclaim was the one to cut, enter and remove block by block for the entire part carved of the hill upon which were erected the temples, and then to reconstruct the monuments in a new location-65 m higher and 300 m further back than the basin of many years to create. The works lasted from 1964 to 1968.
Iceland, the Dam of KárahnjúkavirkjunL'hydroelectric plant of Kárahnjúkavirkjun, located about 90 km south-west from the town of Egilsstadir, in the eastern region of the country, is currently the most important work carried out in Iceland.A system of three dams collects the waters of the glacier river Jokulsa a From in the invaded Halslòn and the pipe, through 73 km of underground pipeline to an underground powerhouse of 690 MW of total capacity.The construction of the whole web site has been created in the period 2003-2009.
Panama, Expansion of the Panama Canal - Third Set of ChiuseNel the second half of 2009 has been signed between the Authorities of the Panama Canal and the Consortium Grupo Unido por el Canal”, composed among others by the group, the agreement for the award of the tender for the construction of a new system of locks as part of the project for the expansion of the canal. The work should be completed by the end of 2014, in the centenary year of the opening of the Panama Canal.2014: The jobs are at risk one stop for financial problems and a dispute between the consortium of the builders and the panamanian authorities on costs in excess of 1.6 billion dollars. According to the manufacturers, the excess costs should be for the contract load of the Panama Canal Authority (Pca), which in turn dismisses each charge. For the consortium of manufacturers (in addition to the Italian Salini Impregilo, even by spain's Sacyr Vallehermoso, Somague (Portugal), Jan de Nul (Belgium) and panama's Constructora Urbana) the excessive costs were due to unforeseen events that have occurred during the construction, a normal thing for this type of projects.Impregilo, the work on widening the Channel of Panama to risk stop for litigation costs in excess of August comes the agreement between the ACP (Canal Authority of Panama) and the GUPC (Grupo Unido por el Canal), and is signed by the variation of the contract for co-financing necessary for the completion of the project.
USA, the New “Gerald Desmond” Long BeachNel July 2013, the group, in joint venture with Shimmick Construction (USA) and FCC Construction (Spain), won the competition launched for the design and construction of the new bridge, “Gerald Desmond” in Long Beach (California).The total value of the contract is approximately 650 million dollars (the portion attributable to the group is 30%). The new cable-stayed bridge will have a total length of approximately 610 metres with a span main of about 300 m and the viaduct of access to the length of about 2 kilometres.The project is particularly complex from the point of view of technical and organisational, since it provides for the maintenance of road, rail and transit naval from and to the port throughout the period of execution of works will be approximately four years.
Denmark, Copenhagen Cityringen metro MetroIl project Cityringhen consists in the construction of a new metro line in the centre of the Danish capital. The new ring has 17 stations located at 30 meters from the road, a long tunnel of 17.4 km each. The excavation of the tunnels will be built by TBM with the exception of the excavation of the service tunnel to Norrebroparken, which will be built with the traditional method.
Saudi Arabia, Metro in Riyadh - Line 3the project, awarded to the group Salini Impregilo, together with Ansaldo STS in July of 2013, provides for the design and construction of the new Line 3 (41,58 km) of the metro Riyadh, part of a new network of subways in the capital of saudi arabia, consisting of 6 lines and about 180 km long (total value of about 23.5 billion US $)http://www.salini-impregilo.com/lavori/ultime-aggiudicazioni/metropolitana-di-riyadh-linea-3.html.
Lesotho Highlands Water ProjectIl group was involved and sued for corruption in the case of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project: the company, participating in the construction of the dam, Katse, in 2006, was ordered to pay approximately 1 million Euro to have hidden to the judiciary of the state of the occurred corruption against the former director of the project, Masupha Sole, a part of it and other multinational companies IPOCCRBM -Campaign for the Reform of the World Bank.
With regard to the regional Hospital San Salvatore l'aquila, the subject of a parliamentary inquiry in 2000, the most recent construction company that was involved in the project of reconstruction of the Hospital was the Cogefar, merged later in the group.Immediately after the controversy about the collapse of the hospital, the company has issued two press releases stampaTerremoto: Impregilo, unrelated to the construction hospital, L'aquila - Milano Finanza Interactive EditionImpregilo: "we have not made a us hospital The Eagle" " THE PAGE – Peppe Caridi Live News shown on all the major news agencies that specify the role played by the company. Through his press office has denied any responsibility in the incident, saying: "The hospital started the construction in 1972, while we have won a race in 1991, when the entire structure had already been pulled up. Our task, with several parts that lasted until 2002, has been the realization of the plants of the subsidiary: floors, bathrooms, mechanical and electrical systems, arranged the furniture, equipments, medical, finishing works and built from scratch two facilities, a nursing school and a kindergarten, works to the belt. But I have no idea who has previously done the structure."Pier Paolo Flammini - "Earthquake, Impregilo: "we have Not built us the hospital at L'aquila,"", 8 April 2009.
The dam Gibe III, EtiopiaNel march 2016 Survival International has submitted an application to the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) against Salini Impregilo spa on the construction of the dam Gibe III along the Omo river, in Ethiopia . According to Survival,the dam is “intended to destroy the livelihoods of thousands of people between Ethiopia and Kenya. The dam put an end to the flooding, the seasonal of the Omo river, from which the 100,000 indigenous people depend directly for watering the cattle and cultivate the fields, while another 100,000 will depend on indirectly.” . Several experts have warned that the dam could also mark the end of the Turkana lake – the biggest lake in the place desert in the world – in Kenya, with catastrophic consequences for another 300,000 indigenous people who live around its shores.Salini Impregilo has responded to these concerns with a note, where he explains that a “multilateral mission of 2009, the Joint Lenders Fact Finding, came to the conclusion that the direct impacts attributable to the project were minimal”. According to the note of Salini Impregilo, the overall effect of the reservoir on the populations upstream of the dam would therefore have been “minor, involving only 58 rural households previously consulted”, contrary to what is predicted by Survival International.
Economic data and finanziariIl Group closed the year 2015, with consolidated revenues of approximately € 4.7 billion, +11.7% compared to 2014, EBITDA was equal to € 486,5 million, an increase of 13.7% compared with the previous year, and operating margin (EBIT) of € 272,7 million,The order backlog amounted to €33.3 billion, of which €26,2 billion related to buildings and €7.1 billion to the concessions.
