Jeffreys pine (Pinus jeffreyi) is one of three noble species of plant in the genus Pinus, the genus of pine (Pinus). It is native to North America.
Habitus Jeffreys pine grows as an evergreen tree, and heights of up to 40 meters, grew achieved, in exceptional cases up to 60 meters. The stem diameter reached 0.6 to 1.2, in exceptional cases up to 2.5 meters. Jeffreys pine forms a regular cone-shaped tree crown, which usually remains to the age. The strong Branches are slightly ascending. In the case of very old trees the crown is the Branches mostly wide with projecting, ascending.
Buds and needle nThe reddish and resin-free winter buds are driven to the Ends of the Terminal. They are cylindrical in shape and 25 to 30 mm long. The spindle-shaped side buds remain small. The blue-green, triangular in cross-section needles are between 16 and 23 inches long and about 2 mm wide. They stand in groups of three on short shoots. You will be surrounded by a 25 mm long needle sheath, which is initially reddish, later blackish. The stiff needles are not bend, when you turn it back on. The tip of the needle is pointed, but not piercing. On all three needle sides slit opening series. In the case of young Shoots, the base instead of needles, is covered with brownish bracts. There is no between the agitators. The needles are 5 to 9 years on the branches, reducing the tree crown is relatively dense. Similar to the bark, the needles are supposed to exude a scent reminiscent of pineapple, vanilla or Violets.
Flowers, cones and seeds of Jeffrey pine is monoecious-dioecious (monoecious) and is around 8 years old nubile. The flowering period extends from June to July. The male cones are up to 4 inches long. They are purple before the flower and turn towards the flower of yellow-green. The female flowers are 8 to 10 millimeters long are cones and are available individually or in to Herded several at the tips of young. They grow up to the end of the 1. Year on up to 1-fifth of the final pin size. The fertilization takes place 13 months after pollination. The immature, cylindrical, egg-shaped cones are pale to dark purple and turn to the ripe brown-red. You are between 13 and 30 inches tall and sit at an approximately 15 mm long stalk. The 4 to 5 inches long, cone scales from the stand to the Mature, almost perpendicular from the journal axis. After the Detachment of the pin a few basal scales remain on the branch. In September and October of the 2. Year is dismissed, the majority of Mature seeds. The seeds with wings up to 30 mm long and 12 mm wide. The thousand-grain weight is around 110 grams. The seeds are dispersed by Wind (Anemochory) and animal (blood vessels). The Yellow pine Chipmunk (Tamias amoenus) and the Kiefernhäher (Nucifraga columbiana) play a major role. The sprouts have 7 to 13 seed leaves (cotyledons).
The root system of Jeffreys pine forms a deep taproot. The strong lateral roots grow partly horizontal, partly sloping down. You have found the roots of old trees even in 30-Meter distance of approximately 5 cm-thick side. The species is a mycorrhizal partnership with the granules boletus (Suillus granulatus) and with Cenococcum geophilum.
BorkeDie Plattenborke of old trees is usually furrowed, dark reddish-brown, resin-free and deep. Especially the bark of older trees is exuding during the growth period, a scent that is reminiscent of vanilla, pineapple, Violet, or lemon. Young twigs have a light brown to blue-grey frosted bark.
HolzDas yellowish-brown to light pink heartwood is surrounded by an almost white to pale yellow sapwood. Due to the dark late wood of the annual rings can be seen. The morning wood goes abruptly to late wood. The straight grained wood is relatively light and soft. It is traversed by resin-canals in both the longitudinal as well as radial. The very fine rays are visible with the naked eye only visible, if you include a resin channel. The resin has an orange-like odor and is composed of around 90% heptane. The Darrdichte is 0.42 g/cm3. In the construction and in the technological properties of the wood of Jeffrey pine and the Yellow pine (Pinus ponderosa).
Largest ExemplareDas largest standing copy of Jeffrey's pine, the "Smoky Jack is probably" on the Tioga Road Pass in California's Yosemite national Park; he is 56,7 m tall and has a trunk diameter of 2.27 m, and a wood volume of 116 m3. An even larger specimen had been destroyed until recently, the "Eureka Valley Giant", the 2002 to 2003 due to bark beetle attacks. He measured 58.5 m at 2.47 m trunk diameter and 129 m3 of wood volume.Details conifers.org-quoted by: Robert Van Pelt: Forest Giants of North America. Seattle: University of Washington Press, 2001.
The centre of distribution is located in California on the Eastern slopes of the Sierra Nevada. To the North it reaches up to the Klamath Mountains in southwestern Oregon. To the South it extends up to the Mexican Sierra San Pedro Mártir in Baja California. In Western Nevada, you will find single, isolated populations South of the Truckee Meadows and in the Glass Mountains. In Central Europe, Jeffreys pine in collections and Parks as a winter of hard single tree is represented. Forestry crops consistently were disappointing.Jeffrey's pine is a tree type a easy and frost hard Light. The climate in their natural distribution area is characterized by warm, dry summers and cold, wet Winter. Depending on the Region the average minimum temperature is between 2° C and -13° C. The temperature difference between day and night can be up to 19° C. At locations in the Eastern Sierra Nevada, the annual rainfall is from 200 to 430 mm, at sites in the Klamath Mountains and Western Sierra Nevada between 1.270 and 1,520 mm. To the soil and the water supply, the type represents only a small claims. Wet locations and locations where after the flood of temporary waterlogging occurs, be avoided. The species grows both on andesite, granite, serpentine - peridotite soils. These soils are mostly coarse to gravelly Sands, loams or loamy Sands. They are not rare volcanic origin. It substrates are tolerated with a low Calcium and molybdenum content and high Nickel, chromium, and magnesium content.
In the North of their natural distribution area, you will find the type at altitudes of 1,000 to 2,130 m, in the coastal mountains in Northern California, almost at sea level. In the middle and the southern Sierra Nevada is at an altitude of 1.830 to 3,100 m.Depending on the location of stocks, the Colorado will be Mixed fir (Abies concolor), the magnificent fir (Abies magnifica), incense cedar (Calocedrus decurrens), Western American formed juniper (Juniperus occidentalis), the White-stemmed pine (Pinus albicaulis), the coastal pine (Pinus contorta), the Nevada pine (Pinus flexilis), sugar pine (Pinus lambertiana), Murray pine (Pinus monticola) and Ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa).
Use of economic importance, especially the root wood. The nail fixed and a little dwindling wood rafters in house construction, mainly for window frames, doors, cladding, roofing, bracing, balustrades and stair railings. It is also used for the manufacture of boxes, crates, and Slatted crates. The species is planted only rarely as a Park tree.
Diseases and Pests and abiotic harmful factors, to as "Los Angeles Smog", photooxidants, especially in the Area of the San Bernardino Mountains in southern California, is of great importance. Approximately 90 % of the stocks show a chlorotic spotting of the needles, premature needle drop, and reduced diameter growth. Damaged trees are also more susceptible to attack by the root sponge (Heterobasidion annosum). In the Eastern Sierra Nevada a winter needle was observed tanning, which goes back to physiological drought, which due to solar radiation on frozen soil. Jeffrey's pine is sensitive to road salt. Damage to the Phloem can occur after the winter frosts of -43° C. The dwarf mistelart Arceuthobium campylopodium affects both young growth as well as Altbäume and damages by swelling of the twigs and branches, witch's broom, stem wounds and Disposals. The type occurs mainly on dry sites. The fungus Verticicladiella wagenerii infests the roots and dye the sapwood to a dark blue. It can cause significant failures. The common honey fungus (Armillaria mellea s), the root sponge (Heterobasidion annosum), and the pine-brown Lingzhi (Phaeolus schweinitzii) infest the roots, but not a threat. Of local importance, the bark-dwelling rust fungus species, Cronartium comandrae, Cronartium comptoniae, Peridermium harknessii and Peridermium are stalactiforme. Elytroderma deformans is a needle-inhabiting fungus that causes a dangerous, several-year-long illness. This disease begins with needle Browning, branch - and Aststerben and may extend in the case of repeated infestation fatal. An infestation center is located in the Lake Tahoe Basin in California. Jeffrey's pine is limited, vulnerable to attack by the Nematodenart Bursaphelenchus xylophilus. The inoculation is carried out on the shoot tips and the spread of the resin canals in the Phloem. The caterpillars of Coloradia pandova eat the old needles before new Growth. As a further harmful moths of the winder Rhyacionia zozona and the borer Dioryctria abietivorella. The Scale Matsucoccus bisetorus penetrates into twigs, branches and trunks of trees of all age classes. The bark beetle Dendroctonus brevicomis to be in the past, a lot of damage.
Systematics Jeffrey's pine, was named after its discoverer, John Jeffrey (1826-1854), a Scottish botanist discovered the tree during his journey through Oregon and California, in California, in the Shasta Valley in the vicinity of Mount Shasta in 1852. Up to the beginning of the 20th century. Century the species was regarded as a variety of the Yellow pine (Pinus ponderosa). It is closely related with the Yellow pine, and Pinus engelmannii. The chromosome number is 2n = 24.
Hybrid Jeffreys pine in overlapping areas, a natural hybrid of Coulter pine (Pinus coulteri) and Ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa). These hybrids are not likely to arise rather sporadically, since the flowering periods of these species overlap. Artificial artkreuzung attempts to get even with the Montezuma pine (Pinus montezumae).
