The Supermarine S. 5 was a idrocorsa, monoplane and single-engine, made by the british company Supermarine in the second half of the twenties.Made specifically for the Cup Schneider participated, aggiudicandosela, the edition of 1927.
The history of the progettoIl the Supermarine S. 5 was the aircraft that Reginald Mitchell designed for the participation in the Cup Schneider of 1927: after the unfortunate trial of 1925 to the previous model S. 4, the designer of the Supermarine remained faithful to the formula monoplana that had proved their validity during the edition of 1926, with the victory of the Italian Macchi M. 39.The design of the S. 5 was kept a secret for as long as possible , in an attempt not to give the opponents the opportunity to evaluate innovations made to the cell. It was taken in flight on June 7, 1927, about 4 months before the race which would be held in Venice. Of S. 5 were altogether made of the three specimens.
TecnicaIl the Supermarine S. 5 was a floatplane boots, monoplane, all-metal structure. Its extremely aerodynamic had long been studied in the wind tunnels of the Royal Aircraft Establishment and the National Physical Laboratory. The result led to a highly streamlined, with a surface maximum frontal aircraft only 0,548 m2.The engine was the 12-cylinder W Napier Lion VII engine, liquid cooled, which also developed the power of 875 hp @ 3 300 rpm/min. Still in search of the best aerodynamic line, the radiators of the cooling liquid were placed on the wing surface, while the oil radiators were placed along the fuselage.On the two specimens sent to participate in the tender of Venice, the engines were slightly different between them: the aircraft registered No. 219 was equipped with a Napier Lion VIIA, where the motor shaft was connected directly to the propeller, while the specimen No. 220, he received the version of the VIIB of the Lion, with the reducer in connection with the propeller .
Use operativoDopo the non-participation to the edition of 1926, the Air Ministry decided to finance directly the team participating in the Coppa Schneider, the framing structure inside the Royal Air Force, at which was formed the High Speed Flight (from the English department-of-flight high-speed) . The race in Venice was a win exhilarating for the colors in English: the two specimens of S. 5 were the only aircraft to complete the course of the race, thereby winning the first two final positions. Their performance on the tour were inavvicinate by all other participants.For the accuracy of the Supermarine S. 5, serial No. 220 won the event in the media (impressive for the time) of 453,282 km/h (equal to 281,54 mph).The career of the S. 5 continued with the attempt to win the speed record for the category of aircraft it belongs to. The attempt, for which he was employed in the aircraft serial No. 221, was the death an accident, which occurred on the 12th of march 1928, which took the life of the pilot .After other fruitless attempts to snatch the Macchi M. 52, the speed records , the last act of the operating life of the Supermarine S. 5 took place in the course of the edition of 1929 the Coppa Schneider, when aircraft No. 220 is placed on the third place in the race won by the most recently Supermarine S. 6 .
