The SIAI S. 8 was a seaplane biplane reconnaissance and attack submarines produced by the Italian company Company Seaplanes Alta Italia (SIAI) in the first decade of the TWENTIETH century.
The history of the progettoProgettato by the engineer Raffaele Conflenti, The SIAI S. 8 was built more than two hundred individuals and used by Service Aircraft of the Navy at the end of the first world war.Characterized by the propeller-pusher and 2 crew, was armed with a machine gun caliber 7.7 mm, and bombs fall read. Was very effective and gave the following to the model SIAI S. 9 is not produced in Italy for the end of the war, but in France under license by Chantiers Apartment-Maritimes de la Seine (CAMS).
Characterized by a look that was to become traditional for its time, the S. 8 retained the general appearance of the Lohner L, the austro-Hungarian empire captured, and who made a model of the Macchi L. 1.Had a main hull made of wood, with a compartment open at two places side-by-side for the pilot and co-pilot observer. Rear ended in a queue that is connected to the bottom of the hull via a tubular structure and is characterized by a tail, cruciform, monoderiva and horizontal planes braced.The configuration the wingspan was a biplane with the upper wing and bottom of the same size, the first placed high on the sun canopy and the second mounted high on the hull, connected between them by a double pair of tubular uprights for side integrated tie-rods in the steel cable. The first was connected to the main hull through a body, where was also placed the engine and the second was equipped with two floats adhesive applied on the lower part of the profile through a tubular structure.The propulsion was entrusted to an engine Isotta Fraschini V. 4B, a 6-cylinder in-line, liquid-cooled capable of delivering a power of 160 HP (118 kW), placed in the configuration pusher and coupled to a two-blade propeller in fixed pitch wooden. Alternatively, it was also used a Colombo, F-150 a 120 HP (88 kW).
