The Fiat G. 12 was a three-engined transport low-wing manufactured by the company of the Italian air force Fiat Aviation in the forties.Initially designed for use in civil aircraft, with the outbreak of the second world war it was converted into the role of transport aircraft in tactical and primarily used by the Regia Aeronautica. At the end of the conflict continued the activity by returning to the use for which it was designed for and used in the fledgling airline Alitalia.
The history of the progettoIl G. 12 was born from the need to provide the airline Avio Italian Lines, owned by the FIAT group, of a new model. The project was entrusted to the engineer Giuseppe Gabrielli, already in force at the Fiat Aviation, and designer of many aircraft, both military and civilian.
TecnicaIl G. 12 was an aircraft from the appearance of the conventional all-metal construction, monoplane, low-wing by the architecture and three-engined, typical of the Italian production of the period.The fuselage, of rectangular cross-section, including the cockpit, located in an elevated position, connected to the compartment, the passengers, from 14 to 22 seats depending on the version, and the baggage compartment. The same ending posteriorly in a conventional tail with tail monoderiva large.The configuration the wingspan was monoplana, with the wing placed low and cantilevered on the fuselage.The landing gear had a configuration of tricycle rear with the trucks front semiretrattili that were in the engine nacelles completed by a wheel rear support is placed under the tail.The propulsion was entrusted to three radial engines Fiat A. 74 RC.42, a 9-cylinder air-cooled capable of delivering a power output of 800 HP (574 kW) each, a version specially designed engine was initially designed to equip the fighter of the Regia. Placed two in nacelles on the wing, and the third on the nose, were enclosed in the same number of enclosures shaped, characterized by notches in correspondence of the heads of the cylinders, and connected to the propeller-blades. The later motorized Alfa Romeo 128 RC.18 were recognizable also because they do not have this feature.
Use operativoDopo the delivery of the first two specimens to the property company FIAT Avio, the Italian Lines (the WINGS), with the outbreak of the conflict the Ministry of Aviation ordered the militarization of the patterns and the assignment of the same to the Nuclei of Communication of the Regia Aeronautica. These continued to be used on the international trade routes and had previously been beaten by companies civil to the final stages of the war. The remaining specimens were taken in charge by the reincorporated the air force that yielded some of the specimens borrowed from the airline Alitalia was born from the ashes of the Ala Littoria in the fascist period.
the civilian version (C for Commercial) passenger transport line 14 seats, equipped with three radial engines Fiat A. 74 RC.42, 800-HP (574 kW) each.
version passengers, 18 seats, equipped with 3 radial Alfa Romeo 128 RC.18 860 HP (633 kW) (1 800 m) each.
version passengers (22 seats, equipped with 3 radial Pratt & Whitney R-1830-S1C3-G Twin Wasp 1 065 hp (793 kW).
