Majestas Domini Abbey of Saint-André (Lavaudieu), detail from the fresco in the RefektoriumDie Majestas Domini ("glory of God") is a particularly in the middle ages, popular image schema, in which Jesus Christ is on his throne and/or in a Mandorla, and most of the example, for exceptions (only four angelic beings to the usual symbol positions), the throne of Christ, the Exultet roll, Ms. 3, Troy (12th century), Fig.: Hermann Fillitz (EDS.): The Middle Ages I. Propyläen History Of Art, Bd. 5, Berlin, 1969) is represented by four winged symbols surrounded. These four beings are borrowed from Ezekiel and revelation, and since the 2. Century as symbols of the evangelists. Often, Christ is holding in his left Hand the book of life and his rights in the speech or gestures of blessing collected. Biblical basis for this representation, especially Isaiah, "heaven is my throne and earth is my footstool," and Ezekiel "On what resembled a throne, sat a figure that looked like a human. Above what looked like his waist, I saw something like fire and round a bright glow. As the sight of the rainbow, on a rainy day in the clouds, as the bright glow around it. For example, the glory of the Lord.“Not as an Illustration of a particular Bible verse, but inspired by various biblical visions, theological interpretations, and liturgical texts, this type of image from the 5. Century. In Carolingian times (639-987) formed in the valid permanent form of representation. After 1300, however, the type of image lost its importance.The Majestas-Domini-illustrations adorn the whole side of the beginning of Evangeliaren and fill the apse Calotte. The Cathedral sculpture in the Tympana of the portals.
The motif is found also in connection with other topics. Especially in the case of extensions to the motifs of the Apocalypse (24 Elders, 12 apostles) shifts the accent to the last judgment, such as, for example, in the Ensemble of the Cathedral of Santa Maria in Florence, dome mosaic in the baptistry dome mosaic of the baptistry in front of the Cathedral Santa Maria in Florence. created by Giotto in the 13th century./14. Century.
