The Cathedral of Saint Peter in Trier (ger. Trierer Dom) is the most ancient cathedral of the bishop of Germany. With a length of 112,5 and a width of 41 is the most important religious building of the art nordic and the largest in the city of Trier.Since 1986, it, along to the Roman Monuments of the city and the Church of Our Lady, is part of the complex, considered as Patrimony of the Humanity by the UNESCO in Trier.
The Cathedral lies on the remains of a luxurious roman residence. In the course of the so-called conversion of constantine, begun by Constantine the Great to christianity, was erected a basilica, which, under the bishopric of st. Maximin (329 – 346) became the largest religious complex built in the Europe of those times, with four basilicas, a baptistery and other buildings. Towards the 340 was born the so-called "Quadrilatero", the core of the cathedral, with four monumental columns coming from the Odenwald.
Period romanoQuale the nucleus of the home to the medieval cathedral, the Cathedral of Trier attracted the interest of archaeological research since 1843. Major excavations took place, especially after the second world war under the direction of the head of the diocesan Museum, Theodor K. Kempf, and of his follower Winfried Weber, until 1981. From the older layers emerged the presence of a luxurious roman district of the II and the III century d.C. To it belonged, among other things, a splendid room with painted walls and a coffered ceiling. Erika Simon: Die konstantinischen Deckengemälde in Trier. Zabern, Mainz 1986, ISBN 3-8053-0903-1 (Trierer Beiträge zur Altertumskunde 3). Under the current cruise of the Dome parts are extant of this house, and frescoes reconstructed, are exhibited in the diocesan Museum of the Cathedral. From the rich décor follows that the environment can in part be attributed to a palace from the late-ancient.The construction of houses were destroyed and leveled in the late fourth century. In place of these buildings was erected a double environment of worship, with two basilicas with three naves, oriented towards the east, of which the test, in particular, the numerous colonnades. . The columns of the basilica on the north and south consist of granite of the Odenwäld, Präziser eigentlich Apple-Quarzdiorit, see Erwin Nickel: in the Odenwald forest. Vorderer Odenwald zwischen Darmstadt und Heidelberg. Bornträger, Berlin/ Stuttgart 1985 (Sammlung geologischer Führer 65) S. 20. of which is proved even today the pillar, said Domstein, place in front of the door of the Cathedral. The enlargement of both environments, including the quadrilateral and the courts with the peristyle, is not completely secure and is presumably among the 40 (Basilica north) and 30 m (Basilica south, under the present Church of Our Lady]] seen from the exit of the Cathedral
