The SIAI S. 9, also referred to as the Savoia S. 9 was a seaplane reconnaissance to the main hull, single-engine, two-seater, and the biplane developed by the company, the Italian aeronautics Company Seaplanes Alta Italia (SIAI) in the late first decade of the TWENTIETH century and the product, as well as, also on licence from the French Society Anonyme des Chantiers Apartment-Maritimes de la Seine (CAMS).
The history of the progettoLe needs of war of the first world war suggested to the SIAI to develop a new model of seaplane suited to aerial reconnaissance, to propose to the Italian army aviation, to support the equal role SIAI S. 8 already employed by the departments aircraft of the Regia Marina, the navy of the then Kingdom of Italy.For this purpose, the technical office of the company, as directed by the engineer Raffaele Conflenti, began developing an aircraft suitable for the purpose, drawing on the experience in the construction of models of FBA that the Italian company realized on the license. . The new model, referred to as the "model 9", ", this treatment, the setting of the previous projects, FBA, hydro to the main hull with sail biplane single engine with a propeller mounted in the configuration pusher.The construction of the prototype was completed in the course of 1918, the year in which it was made the first flight.
TecnicaL'S. 9 retained the general appearance of the seaplanes of the period and, essentially, the setting of the parent SIAI S. 8, seaplane, two-seater to the main hull with the configuration, the wingspan biplane.The hull, made of wood, was characterized from the passenger compartment open two-seater side-by-side for the pilot and co-pilot observer. Rear ended in a fin classic cruciform, monoderiva with horizontal planes braced.The fog was a biplane with the upper wing, positioned high to the sun visor and the second one mounted high on the hull, connected between them by a double pair of tubular uprights to the side, the structure further strengthened by tie-rods in the steel cable. The first was connected to the main hull through a body, where was also placed the engine and the second was equipped with two floating equalizers positioned at the intrados.The propulsion was entrusted to a engine Fiat A. 12bis, a 6-cylinder in-line, liquid-cooled capable of delivering a power of 300 HP (221 kW), placed between the two-storey wing configuration pushing on a castle tubular central, and paired with a wooden propeller fixed pitch.
FinlandiaIl model was one of the aircraft that went to make up the Suomen ilmavoimat, the air force Finnish, donated by the Italian government to the new reality of the state after independence from the Russian Empire. A specimen of S. 9 was taken over in September 1919, remaining in service until may 1920 when, due to an error in the assessment of the more Väinö Mikkolan that was at his command, was destroyed by the impact with the surface of the water, due to the excessive speed of descent during landing, near the military base in Santahamina. The other two specimens, obtained in September 1920 thanks to the initiative of the manufacturer of tobacco Achilles Christides, were lost to the incident at the beginning of their transfer flight, probably to the disintegration of the propellers, causing the death of all the crews. .
