Nobile T. 34 Roma is an airship semi-rigid, built in Italy, designed by the aeronautical engineer Italian Umberto Nobile in collaboration with other Italian engineers, specialists, Celestino Usuelli, Eugenio Prassone and Gaetano Crocco, engineer and pioneer of airships italians. The aéronel will be made by the company SCA of Rome.The first t-34 will take place on march 19, 1919. It will then be put in service and will carry out 22 flights, including a flight in the night up to Naples, and another to Sicily. In may 1921, it was sold to the Marina in the United States, which the rename to Roma.Its appellation of origin in Italy T. 34 means Transatlantico 34.000 m3, volume of hydrogen balloon.
HistoireUmberto Nobile introduced on the T. 34 Roma several innovations to improve the performance of airships semi-rigid Italian. In fact, the airships italians used during the first world war by the Regia Marina for the recognition and by the army for the shelling, had different characteristics of the aircraft such as the Zeppelin germans, notably at the level of the maximum altitude, limited to 4,000 metres for the devices italians against 5,000 for the germans which made them less vulnerable to attack from enemy aircraft.The main innovations have been to modify the rudders and strengthen the beams reticular keel to fix the motors worn the number 6 instead of the 4 commonly used on devices Italian.Its official designation was 18, Mr. (editor's note : All airships Italian military have been characterized by the letters M and P). Subsequently, it was called T-34, as the lifting capacity of the aircraft was approximately 34 tons.
The T. 34 becomes Roma to the States UnisEn may 1921, the T. 34 was sold to the Navy of the United States, which the rename to Roma.The first flight in the United States was held on November 15, 1921, from the base of Langley in Virginia. After another test flight, the performance obtained with the 6 motors Ansaldo of origin have been found to be unsatisfactory. It has therefore been decided to replace these engines with engines Liberty.
The first flight with the new engine configuration has taken place on February 21, 1922 still on the base of Langley. On board were 45 people, including civil engineers. During the flight, the speed of the airship has reached 90 km/h, but at 14h19 accurate, the nose of the airship broke. The damage has rendered the "Roma" ungovernable and unable to take off again. Near the naval base in Norfolk, so that the airship went down normally to the ground, he stepped on a power line at High voltage. At first contact with the electrical cables under tension, the hydrogen caught fire, causing an explosion. There were only 11 survivors, all severely injured by the fire.The first investigation attributed the cause to the installation of the new engines, but the official investigation ruled that the cause of the incident could not be identified with certainty.This incident was followed a few months later, the airship british R38 (ZR-2), purchased by the US Navy and simply referred to as ZR-2, has led the United States to reconsider the use of hydrogen. Thus, the airship is stiff in the course of manufacture to Lakehurst, the ZR-1 "Shenandoah", was fitted to helium.The airship T. 34 rome was intended to be the basis of Brooks, near San Antonio, Texas, military base with a training school for observers of the american army.The National Museum of the United States Air Force, air force base Wright-Patterson, preserved and exhibited one of the 6 motors Ansaldo originally installed on the airship T. 34 rome.
