The SIAI S. 21 was a idrocorsa (seaplane race) to the main hull, single-engine configuration and wing biplane-sesquiplana inverted, developed by the Italian company to Company Seaplanes Alta Italia (SIAI) in the early twenties.Destined to participate in the 5th edition of the Cup, Schneider failed to show up at the departure for the unavailability of the pilot.
The history of the progettoDopo that ADHD, with its S. 17 and S. 19, had failed to get any result at the 4th edition of the Coppa Schneider, the trial was held in 1920 on the circuit of the Lido of Venice for the next edition, planned in Venice in August 1921, it was decided to develop a new model, entrusting the task to his chief designer Raffaele Conflenti, already the author of the previous drawings.Conflenti estremizzò further the setting of the new model, which was given the designation S. 21, proposing a hydro-engine to the main hull with sail biplane, but by introducing some special features of the technology.
TecnicaCome the predecessors of the cell was made by a wood hull combined with a wing on the biplane, but in this case it was in the configuration biplane-sesquiplana reversed, that is, with the lower wing, mounted high on the hull, opening to be considerably higher than that of the second, mounted high to the sun visor, and is connected by a double pair of uprights and diagonals to form a truss Warren. Between the two wings, on a castle tubular in the center of the upper wing, was placed in the configuration pushing the engine aircraft Ansaldo San Giorgio 4E-14, liquid-cooled engine in that version, capable of delivering a power of 300 hp (224 kW), enclosed within a gondola along the radiator front intubated and coupled to a fixed pitch propeller, the first two and later variants. Rear ended in a fin cross-shaped elements with a square, typical design of hydro created by the company. The model on the first flight proved to be promising as a performance, but very difficult to govern: the only one able to do so with safety was the pilot of the Regia Marina Guido Jannello, test driver, already winner not credited with the contested 3rd edition of the Coppa Schneider, the test carried out in 1919 on the circuit, Bournemouth, United Kingdom.
Use operativoPer to verify the competitiveness of the prototype, nc.3021 and nicknamed for its aerodynamic characteristics "Idrobolide", was writing to the idroraduno of Montecarlo which took place between 13 and 20 April, 1921, competition air force that took place on the various tests of the speed and regularity. presumably equipped with a motor of lower power, the Isotta Fraschini V. 9, 260-hp. Although the statistics would reveal the participation because of the damage to the keel is presumed not to have been able to complete the tests.Nevertheless, it was decided to register the model to the 5th edition of the Cup Schneider that would have taken place by the date of August 11 of that same year in Venice. The tests started in the care of Jannello confirmed not only the competitiveness but also the superiority in performance compared to competing models, however, due to an illness contracted by the pilot the aircraft, inscribed with the number 18 and characterized by a white rectangle with 4 vertical stripes of red, was not presented on the starting line.The rapid evolution of aeronautical technology as applied in the competitions vanificò the possibility of returning to the S. 21 at the next 6th edition of the Coppa Schneider, which was held in Naples in 1922. Given the presence of new models from higher performance, the S. 21 was not carried.
The SIAI S. 21 in mediaIl SIAI S. 21 is cited, although incorrectly but, more probably, to an artistic license to pay homage to the Italian aviation of the period, such as the aircraft's main film of japanese animation director Hayao Miyazaki, screened for the first time in Japan in 1992 and released in Italy on November 12, 2010. Although the iconography and merchandising back to the movie of the identify as the SIAI S. 21 (also cited, incorrectly, as a Savoia S. 21 the Savoia-Marchetti S. 21
The engineer Alessandro Marchetti came to the Company Seaplanes Alta Italia (SIAI) in 1922, while the project of the S. 21 was 1921. Only some time after his arrival he began to be included in the designation of the company also the last name Marchetti, becoming the first SIAI-Marchetti and then the Savoia-Marchetti.),
The M. 33 was a model monoplane, even if a difference of S. 21 of the film, the wing is low and is not mounted on the motor mount.
