The Savoia-Marchetti S. 51 was a idrocorsa (seaplane race) biplane single-engine to the main hull built by the Italian manufacturer Savoia-Marchetti in 1922 to take part in the edition of the same year of the Cup the Schneider that year took place in Naples.
TecnicaL'S. 51 kept a look rather conventional for the time, the biplane to the main hull, with the motor configuration pusher. The hull was characterised by a design highly aerodynamic, with a cockpit open position, enhanced and protected by a windscreen, which ended in the back in a tail, cruciform monoderiva and horizontal planes braced.The configuration the wingspan was biplane-sequiplana, characterized by the lower wing smaller than the upper one, the first, mounted high on the upper part of the hull. The two wings were connected by a tubular structure to a truss with Warren, and the lower part equipped on the underlying surface of a small structure to which were attached the floats on balancing side, the upper connected to the hull via a tubular construction in which it was integrated in the nacelle.The propulsion was entrusted to a motor francospagnolo Hispano-Suiza 8, an 8-cylinder V, capable of delivering a power exceeding 300 HP, positioned in the configuration pusher and coupled to a two-blade propeller in fixed pitch wooden.
The S. 51, registered with the marche region civil THE-BAIU, was writing to the neapolitan edition of Schneider, which took place from 10 to 12 August, 1922. Painted in the usual red race paired to Italy in sporting events, and entrusted to the guidance of Alessandro Passaleva , the test pilot of Savoia-Marchetti, was marked for the competition with the number 8.The edition was won by the british Supermarine Sea Lion II (G-EBAH), conducted by Henry Biard, but the S. 51 came, however, in making the path in the time of 1 h 36 m 54 s to an average of 230,93 km/h .The S. 51 was expected to participate also in the next edition of 1923, which was held at Cowes, England, but even though it appears in the subscription list was not presented.
