The Japanese Rotkiefer grows as an evergreen tree reaching heights of growth of an average of 15, up to a maximum of 35 meters. The bark of young trees is reddish-brown (hence the Name), with the age, it is increasingly grayish. The needles are bright green, are each two in a needle, sheath, and 8 to 12 inches long. Overall, the needles remain for three years on the tree. The male cones are brown and are available in 9-to 10-cm long whorls. The pale brown female cones are round and tapering to a point; they reach 4 to 7 inches in length and need two years to Mature.
VorkommenSie is the dominant Conifer on the Japanese Islands, where you as Akamatsu (jap. ) is known, but can also be found on the far Eastern mainland (Korea, China, southeastern Russia). This species grows on dry, slightly acidic soils in Sunny locations.
Classification and variety nThe first description comes from Philipp Franz von Siebold and Joseph Gerhard Zuccarini; it was published in 1842, in their common work, the Flora japonica.Flora japonica. Stuttgart 2, 1842, P. 22, Table 112. See entry for GRIN.There are three varieties to be distinguished:See Weblink conifers.org.
;Low-Glow ;, ;Little, Christopher ; (; Rezek ;s Witch ;s Broom Seedling ;) and ;Tiny Temple ; (; Temple ; called): These are all forms of Miniature with dark green needles.
;Oculis Draconis ; (also under the German name of dragon's eye pine to be known): The needles of this Form have alternating green and yellow bands. It grows as a large shrub or as a small tree. http://woodyplants.nres.uiuc.edu/plant/pindeod (engl.)
;Pendula ;: This method needs to be trained by staking, to the form of a tree, as it grows otherwise on the ground crawling. The needles are dark green. http://woodyplants.nres.uiuc.edu/plant/pindepe (engl.)
;Umbraculifera ; (also under the name ;Tagyōshō ; (jap. , dt. "A lot of shaped pine")): This common Form, usually grows as a multi-stemmed tree or large shrub with a wide Mature crown; it is approximately 7 metres height or width is reached. The bark is more or less orange. http://woodyplants.nres.uiuc.edu/plant/pindeum (engl.) This Cultivar is prone to snow breakage. There are also dwarf forms ;Umbraculifera Compacta ; and ;Jane Kluis ; that are not more than 2 meters high.
Cultural significance of the Rotkiefer traditionally in Japan, as Akamatsu ( , dt. "Red pine") or Mematsu ( , dt. "Female jaws"), in contrast to in Japan, common Japanese black pine, the Omatsu (dt. "male pine"), is referred to agriculture and forestry and as an Ornamental tree. She is regularly to be found in Japanese gardens. In Central Europe, the use is problematic. The cultivation in Parks and gardens because of the high susceptibility to snow breakage, and the leaf parasites of little interest. In forestry, more problems arise due to the under Central European conditions occurring in poor Vigor and root forms.The oil-rich seeds of the Japanese Rotkiefer are edible and have a slightly resinous taste.See Weblink Plants for a Future. The Rotkiefer living in symbiosis mushroom Matsutake in Japan is considered a delicacy.
