The Igeler säule in the village of Igel on the Moselle is in addition to the Mainz Drusus stone, the only one at its original location since ancient times, above-ground preserved Roman tomb North of the Alps. The destruction after the collapse of the Roman Empire, escaped it by the fact that in the middle ages, the main image was held on the South side for a representation of the marriage of Constantius Chlorus with the Holy Helena, the mother of Constantine the Great.
The 23-Meter-high arrow monument of red Sandstone was built around 250 of the brothers Lucius Secundinius Aventinus and Lucius Secundinius Securus for yourself and your deceased relatives. It is richly decorated with bas-Reliefs. They show scenes from the everyday and professional life of a cloth merchant, as well as from mythology. The originally colourful monument was in memory of the dead in the family is probably the purpose of advertising character, the cloth business of the Secundinier in the city of Trier (Augusta Treverorum). A reconstruction of the column with the true to original painting is in the Rhenish state Museum in Trier. The tip of the Arrow is adorned with the sculpture of an eagle with outstretched wings. Today, it is weathered very heavily, and barely even as an eagle. From the Latin word for eagle, aquila, – the place hedgehog his name (cf. the English word "eagle" and the name Eigelstein).
Historythe Bolognese nobleman Fulvio Ruggieri accompanied the the special papal Nuncio Giovanni Francesco Commendone, Bishop of Zante, to Trier and on 14. In January 1562, the Igeler säule visited, which he describes in his trip report shortly.Adam Wandruszka: electorate of Trier four centuries ago. In: Kur-Trier, Spanish Yearbook 1969, hrg from the city library of Trier and the society for useful research, 9. Born in 1969. Printing and publishing New & co., Trier in 1969. P. 129ff.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, the Igeler säule column, on 26. August and 22. or 23. October 1792 visited; thereafter, he has described and drawn.Goethe's drawing of the Igeler säule column, Original copper engraving Cabinet, Staatl. Museums Preuß. Kulturbesitz.. He said after that Often over the ancient Monument.Karl-Heinz Weichert, Goethe and the Igeler säule. In: Goethe in Trier and Luxembourg. 200 years of the campaign in France, 1792. Catalogue of the exhibition in the city library of Trier, the national library of Luxembourg and of the Stiftung Weimar Klassik. 1992. ISSN 0942-7031. ISBN 2-87980-005-6. P. 102-123. Among other things, he wrote in the autobiographical writing campaign in France:On the way from Trier to Luxembourg, the Monument enjoyed soon in the near hedgehog. As known to me was how happy the Old knew to put their buildings and monuments, I threw in my thoughts immediately went to all of the village huts away, and now it stood on the most worthy places. The Moselle river flows past directly, which to a considerable water, the Saar, links; the curvature of the body of water, the On and off of the ground, and lush Vegetation of the give rule of law, love and Dignity. (23. August) and Maybe the Power of the ancient world had never felt so as in this contrast: a Monument, even in war times, but the happy, victorious days, and a permanent well-being of industrious people in this area. Although in later time, under the Opinions, built, retains it is always goodly art so much features that it speaks to us in all the graceful ernst and his, although very damaged Parts of the feeling of a cheerful manner to make existence (22. October).The Sayner Hütte in Bendorf on the Rhine, which had specialized in the reproduction of ancient models in art casting process, has Zumpft in 1829, a 19-inch replica of the Igeler säule column, according to the design of the art former, Heinrich, and according to the drawings of Carl Osterwald created. One of the first bronze casts went in may 1829 to Weimar to Goethe.Karl-Heinz Weichert, Goethe and the Igeler säule. In: Goethe in Trier and Luxembourg. 200 years of the campaign in France, 1792. Catalogue of the exhibition in the city library of Trier, the national library of Luxembourg and of the Stiftung Weimar Klassik. 1992. ISSN 0942-7031. ISBN 2-87980-005-6. P. 108.
Various close to to the Igeler säule column, in one of the vineyard slope, with the Grutenhäuschen another, but reconstructed Roman tomb.Since 1986, the Igeler säule is part of the UNESCO world heritage Roman monuments, Cathedral and liebfrauen Church in Trier. Furthermore, it is a protected cultural property under the Hague Convention.
