The CANT Z. 1007 Alcione was a medium bomber three-engined low-wing developed by the aeronautics division of the Italian company, Cantieri Riuniti dell Adriatico in the thirties and product, as well as, also on license from other national companies.Designed by ingegner Filippo Zappata, the chief designer of the company and the author of numerous aircraft such as the CANT Z. 506 . it was characterized by the wooden structure, "excellent flying qualities and good stability" . and is considered by many authors as the "best bomber in the Italian of the second world war," although its wooden structure could be easily damaged by extreme climatic conditions, such as those encountered in north Africa and in the Soviet Union. During the conflict was mainly used by the Regia Aeronautica, the Italian air force of the period, and then, after the events following the signing of the armistice of Cassibile by the air force Cobelligerante Italian, air force, National Republican, and the Luftwaffe.
The history of the progettoIl project, born in 1935, was the engineer Filippo Zappata and maintained the cleanness of the lines typical of its achievements. The formula was that of the three, the most widespread among the Italian aircraft medium/heavy vehicles of that period
The manufacturer, CRDA CANT (Cantieri Riuniti dell'adriatico - Cantiere Navale Triestino), presented the first prototype, CANT. Z. 1007 in march 1937. It differed from the later to the on-line engines Isotta Fraschini Asso XI from 825 horsepower, and propellers two wooden. Then, for the first version of a series of 34 specimens destined to 221º Group of the Regia Aeronautica, were introduced; propellers-blades metallic and radiators changed. The engines "Asso XI" proved to be unreliable . and then the first batch of aircraft is not found in operational use. Parallel to the production of the first batch, the designer worked with a modified version, CANT. Z. 1007bis, which are intended to mount the most powerful radial engines Piaggio P. XI R. 2C, 40, 14-cylinder double star, air cooled. Were also changed the tail to improve visual shot of the dorsal turret. From 35º sample series were introduced these changes. The first specimens of series entered in service in 1940.LAlcione, so it was christened, was an airplane fast and reliable, but suffered a hard-working maintenance and tuning, due to the structure of the wood. In 1942, there was now exceeded, but the programs for the series production of the aircraft intended to replace it, including the CANT Z. 1018 Leone, was delayed and was finally stopped with the armistice.
TecnicaIl CANT Z. 1007 was a monoplane with three-wing media. The construction was completely made of wood, this solution influenced both the rate of production – the construction was extremely complex – that on the use the operating.
The construction of the aircraft was done by setting the property as if it were a speedboat, before the structures in the longitudinal and then transversal. Once the structure is completed, among the various currents were inserted wooden forms that competed to create a smooth surface on which was lying the coating consists of wooden slats glued to forty-five degrees on the structure and crossed at ninety degrees from one layer of lamellae to another.It is evident that a similar procedure was extremely slow and therefore does not allow for a high production rate, was also not executable by all companies in the aeronautic, in fact, in addition to the CRDA only the IMAM and, in the course of 1943, the Piaggio built aircraft.The CANT Z. 1007bis-series were produced with the tail vertical tail in two different versions (the two versions are not generally considered to be variations):
War mondialeQuando Italy entered the war on 10 June 1940, the Regia Aeronautica had only two Flocks equipped with the "Alcione". One was the 16th, with 31 aircraft, provided, however, engines, Isotta Fraschini, and therefore declared "war". The 47º Stormo had just received four CANT bis, on which was still in progress, the training of the crews. .
The CANT Z. 1007bis was intended as a bomber on the Greek front, in the Aegean in 1941 the 210ª Squadron sank the destroyers of the Royal Navy HMS Juno), and over the whole mediterranean zone. Use in north Africa proved to be difficult due to the difficulty of maintenance under high temperature, as well as to the limits of tactical aircraft in the exchequer. On the Sleeve, and worked as a scout in the autumn of 1940. In 1943 they were removed from the first line and for night missions, with slight changes to the exhaust systems of the engines.On January 28, 1941, ten Alcione was addressed two times, the first by a formation of ten hunting and the second from one of the twelve, are both made up of biplanes Gloster Gladiator. The italians lost three but managed to knock down the three assailants. During the "battle of half August" to stop the convoy Pedestal, en route to Malta in August 1942, only a few Z. 1007 Alcione of the 51st Gruppo Autonomo based in Alghero, in Sardinia, he carried out missions of reconnaissance on the convoy. Only on the 14th of August, at the end of the battle, three 1007bis bombed from high altitude, the enemy ships. . During that battle, a CANT specially modified by means of an apparatus of radio-guide created by the general Ferdinando Raffaelli, would have had to drive a SIAI Marchetti S. M. 79 ARP (Aircraft Radio Controlled), without crew and armament, but the explosive cargo, as a "flying bomb" against the convoy. But the mission failed due to a trivial technical problem and was not retried. .After the armistice, the appliances recovered in the south were framed in the Flock at Night and used to aviolanci of weapons and golden crops, so the Italian units still operating in the Balkans and the yugoslavian partisans. The CANT Z. 1007bis remained in the north were reorganized into the 1st Team Bombing "Ettore Muti", air force National Republican, the department that carried out activities other than training.
MaltaL'"Alcione" had its baptism of fire on 29 August 1940, when a formation of ten CANT Z. 1007 bis monoderiva of the 106º Group bombed the airport of Luqa. The 106º, based on Chinisia, Trapani, in Sicily, was soon joined by the entire 47º Stormo Bombardment of the Earth with a total availability of 33 aircraft. When the war broke out with Greece, the 47º was moved on that front. The CANT Z. came back on Malta in 1941, with the 9º Stormo Bombardment of the terrestrial, with the 29th and 33rd Gruppo, equipped with 25 "Alcione". The 9th was later joined by the 50th Group, based in Sciacca.
The two Italian units-were accompanied by the II Fliegerkorps of the Luftwaffe, but when the German planes were transferred to north Africa, bombing missions over Malta of the CANT were reduced, also because the bombers were cope with the enhanced air defense of the island, which employed the radar combined with the night fighter Bristol Beaufighter. The "Alcione", began a third wave of bombing on Malta, between 10 and 20 October 1942. The 9th Squadron and the 8th Group of the 43rd Stormo had on line 30 CANT but only 12 were operational.
The battle of InghilterraI Z. 1007, were also used during the last stages of the Battle of britain from November 1940 to January 1941. The Regia Aeronautica sent six Z. 1007Bis of the 172ª Squadron in Belgium as a reconnaissance aircraft for the Airplane Body Italian. But when the aircraft reached its base, to September, the command realized the Luftwaffe had already photographed the “belt” of the south-east of England, and the Italian aircraft were used in the forces for just one day, the 11th of November 1940, when five “Alcione” were sent as “air bait and switch” to lure the hunting of the RAF away from the main objective of the Italian attack on the port of Harwich led by ten Fiat BR.20. The plan failed but no-one Z. 1007 was shot down over England, although one of the six originally sent was lost during the trip to transfer in based in Belgium, in September 1940.
The war Greek-ItalianaDurante the invasion of Greece, the Regia Aeronautica deployed the largest number of CANT. Z. on The 28th of October 1940, the first day of the invasion, the 47º Stormo Bombardment of the Earth (based on the airport of Grottaglie) and the 50th Group of the 50th Stormo (based on Brindisi airport) had on line 44 Alcione. On the 5th of November, these units were side-by-side from the 41st Group of the 12th Stormo, with 16 aircraft. . In this campaign, the Flocks suffered a few losses, and during January 1941, the 41st Group was replaced by the 95 th Group of the 35th Squadron.
But it was precisely in this theater of operations that, due to torrential rain, proved to be the weaknesses of the wood structure, which forced to make continuous adjustments and tightening which reduced the efficiency of the aircraft.
JugoslaviaI CANT opened the hostilities against Yugoslavia, 6 April 1941, bombing of the Mostar airport. During that short invasion, the Regia Aeronautica deployed 49 CANT. ZBis, 26 of 47º Stormo, 15 of the 95 th Group (the 35th Wing), and eight of the 50th Group (of the 16th Stormo).
The Independent state of CroaziaNel January 1944, the two squadrons of bombardment of the Croat Luwftwaffen LegionLo independent State of Croatia had its own air force, Zrakoplovstvo NDH, which operated in the homeland. The volunteer pilots who fought on the Russian front were framed in the Luftwaffe within the Croat Luwftwaffen Legion. Their planes had the markings of the Luftwaffe with the addition of the symbol of the Ustasha, a shield checkered red-white topped by a " U " shape in the fuselage., the formation of a mixed Croatian-German part of the Luftwaffe, received the 3 Z. 1007 bis (along with the 3 Fiat B. R. 20) and use them as trainers of the crew to the bombing.
improved version with more powerful engines, the Piaggio P. XIX from the 1,150 HP. Bomb load: 1,000 kg; maximum speed 500 km/h; range 2.250 km; maximum takeoff weight 10.465 kg.
the prototype of the aircraft post a military with more powerful engines, the Piaggio P. XIX RC.35 1,500 HP. Flew in 1939. Maximum speed 560 km/h; range 3,000 km; maximum takeoff weight 13.600 kg. The prototype was later reconfigured as a torpedo bomber.
prototype version seaplane of the Z. 1007, obtained from a cell of the Z. 1007 with the boots of a Z. 506B. Flew in 1940.
CuriositàNel films of Roberto Rossellini, A pilot returns, 1942), the protagonist, Ten. Pilot Rossati, enters service in 161ª Squadron Bombardment of the Terrestrial, however non-existent but fitted quite so with the CANT Z. 1007.One of the most important works of Gabriele D'annunzio, the third of the "Praises of the sky, sea, earth and heroes", has the title as the code name of the plane that is precisely Alcyone.
