The history of the project in 1922 he was hired by the engineer Alessandro Marchetti, who began the design of a new seaplane, light intended for the civilian market, tourism and training. Characterised by the configuration, the wingspan biplane, was brought in the flight for the first time in 1924.After a long development work, which lasted three years, was started the production in series, by adopting, in three different versions, a good number of different engine options, subsequently becoming amphibious aircraft with the adoption of a small fixed gear. Was also built under license in the United States of America, by the American Aeronautical Corporation (AAC), and exported in Romania and Brazil.
CellulaLa cell was a biplane, and the wings, upper and lower, are mounted with a small angle to the horizontal to ensure the transverse stability.
The configuration the wingspan was biplane-sesquiplana with the lower wing, positioned high on the hull, which integrated the two floating equalizers and connected at the top, positioned high to the sun visor, via a pair of struts per side. The latter was linked to the upper part of the hull by a castle tubular which was also a support to the nacelle, which is positioned just below the upper wing.
ScafoLo hull was made with wood structure covered in panels of plywood, was characterized by a passenger compartment open two-seater side-by-side one more, the first equipped with dual controls.
The central part of the hull were fastened to the wings lower, the engine mount and aft of the empennage, a classic monoderiva.The structure of the hull was of oak and Silver Spruce while the coating was in plywood, and lists of cedar.
MotoreLa propulsion was entrusted to a series of motors, chosen according to the needs of the customer and by the different architectures from the one line to the radial (among which Fiat A. 53, Fiat A. 54, and Walter VenusSavoia-Marchetti S. 56 in Virtual Aircraft Museum.), always, however, in a tractor configuration and combined with a two-blade propeller in wood with variable pitch.
Specimens currently esistentiDue only specimens are existing and kept in the museum. The first is located in United States. This is the copy with the registration of the civil NC349N built under licence from AAC and used by the us police during the period of prohibition to combat the smuggling of rumFlypast March 2010 p.63., on display at the Cradle of Aviation Museum Long Island, New York. The second, with the registration of the civil Italian, THE-AEDA, is on display in the Historical Museum of Aviation of Vigna di Valle on Lake Bracciano.
