The white Pine of Mexico, the Pine of Mexico or Pine, ayacahuite, Pinus ayacahuite, is a species of conifer of the family Pinaceae.
DescriptionPinus ayacahuite is a large tree up to generally 30 to 45 m and exceptionally over 50 m in height. It is a member of subgenus Strobus, and like all members of this group, the leaves (needles) are grouped by five fascicles with a sheath void. The needles are finely serrated, and measure 9 to 16 cm long. The cones are long and thin, measuring 15 to 40 cm in length, 4 to 6 cm in width when closed and up to 6 to 10 cm when opened; the scales are thin and flexible. The seeds are small, measuring 6 to 8 mm in length, and have a wing thin and long, measuring 18 to 25 mm in length.It is moderately susceptible to white pine blister rust (Cronartium ribicola), but in cultivation it has proven to be a little less sensitive than most other pines white americans.
Pinus ayacahuite is native to the mountains of southern Mexico and Western central America, in the Sierra Madre del Sur and the eastern end of the axis volcanic transversal, between 14째 and 21째 of north latitude in the mexican States of Guerrero, Oaxaca, Puebla, Veracruz and Chiapas, and in Guatemala, Salvador and Honduras. The tree believes in areas that are relatively humid with summer rains, however, specimens from the east and south of its distribution, living conditions are particularly damp ; it requires good sunlight and well-drained soil. On average, over the year, the temperature fluctuates from 19 째 to 10 째 C. This tree accepts the terms and conditions of the subtropics, see a cold climate.
Culture and utilisationsIl has been planted for commercial purposes for the paper industry at different latitudes and altitudes in different parts of the world : in the equatorial regions and tropical as in Kenya, Tanzania, Angola, but also in temperate regions of the subtropics, as in the hightlands of South Africa, in higher altitudes in the south of Brazil, in the north of India, also in temperate regions at medium altitudes and low in the provinces in argentina, Salta, Tucuman and Cordoba ; between 500 m and 1500 m altitude. Finally it is planted at altitudes close to sea level in Australia (Queensland and New South Wales), and New Zealand. As an ornamental, it has been planted in the british isles. The largest tree in culture can be found in the arboretum Sequoiafarm Kaldenkirchen in Germany and was 20.5 m in 2013.
