The project was developed by Umberto Nobile, in collaboration with Celestino Usuelli, Eugene Prassone and Gaetano Arturo Crocco, an engineer of genius and pioneer of the airship Italian. The Rome, in 1921, was purchased for 165 000 $ from the army of the United States.With the Rome, Noble introduced a number of innovations to improve the performance of airships semi-rigid Italian. In fact, the aircraft used in the first world war, from the royal Navy for reconnaissance, and by the army for the bombing, they showed characteristics inferior to those of the Zeppelin German both as speed and as a share of operating (the semi-rigid Italian-arrive at 4 000 m, while Zeppelins could operate at 5 000 m, making them targets more difficult).
Mainly the innovations consisted in the modifications to the rudders, which took on the appearance of a cross typical of the Zeppelin and into the truss keel.
The frame, the lattice was extended along the entire structure of the airship so as to be able to attach engines directly. The number of engines was increased to six, mounted in pairs along the keel. The first couple was in front of the cockpit.The official designation was the 18-M (airships Italian soldiers were characterized by the letters M and P). Subsequently, it was referred to as the T-34 because the lifting capacity of the airship was about 34 tons.Before being disassembled to be moved via ship to the United States, the airship made several test flights, mainly in the surroundings of Rome. In one of these flights was a guest on board the then us ambassador, Robert Johnson Underwood; on this occasion, the Roma came to fly over Naples and the island of Capri.The first flight to the United States took place on the 15th November, 1921, from the base of Langley in Virginia. After test flights, the performance obtained with the 6 engines and Ansaldo were deemed unsatisfactory. It was thought then to replace the original engines with more powerful Liberty engines. As a further motivation was given some unreliability in the engines by Ansaldo.The first flight with the new configuration engine came on 21 February 1922, always from the base of Langley. Aboard there were 45 persons, including some civil engineering. During the flight it reached a speed of about 90 km/h, but at 14:19 and the nose of the airship collapsed. The damage led to the loss of the rudder of altitude, making the Rome ungovernable, and incapable of resuming. Near the base of Norfolk, and now next to the ground, the aircraft struck a high-voltage line. The contact with the cables, and the hydrogen caught fire, causing an instant explosion. There were only 11 survivors, severely injured from the fire.The cause could be due to the installation of the new engines, but the investigation which followed the event not reported specific causes.This incident, followed a few months later by that of the airship for the british R38, destined for the United States navy as ZR-2, and caused the United States to reconsider the use of hydrogen. For the airship hard in the final stages of completion at Lakehurst, the ZR-1 "Shenandoah", was then adopted helium.The airship Roma was originally intended to be the basis of Brooks, situated in the outskirts of San Antonio, Texas, the headquarters of a foundation and a school for observers in aircraft of the army. For Roma had been set up a new hangar that was finally demolished in the early 1940's, when the airships had lost importance as a reconnaissance aircraft.At the National Museum of the United States Air Force, at the air base Wright-Patterson, is still one of the motors Ansaldo originally installed on the airship Roma.
