it
Diagonal:1, Size:9
[1]BiografiaTerminata his training in the convent of Egmond, Egbert became, in 976, chancellor of the emperor otto II in 977, the pope appointed him archbishop of Trier, in order to guarantee, in this position, the interests of the kingdom of ottonian.In 983 Egberto took part in a meeting of the imperial court of Verona.
[3]He was known as a patron of sciences and arts.
[4]Under his bishopric Trier, probably in the Abbey of St. Maximinus, developed a Scriptorium, very active, in the context of which it operated one of the most outstanding miniaturists of the bibliofilia ottonian, the so-called master of the Registrum Gregorii .
[5]In collaboration with the Scriptorium for the scribes of the Abbey of Reichenau, and built for Egbert a gospel that Egbert gave to the Abbey of Saint Paulinus of Trier (municipal Library of Trier, Ms. 24).
[6]For Egbert, was written by a famous psalter, the Codex Egberti , preserved today in the National Archaeological Museum of Cividale del Friuli (Cod.
[7]136).
[8]The laboratory oreficeriaDa Egberto takes the name also the so-called "Laboratory of Egbert", which is one of the most significant goldsmiths ottonian and that is known especially for his enamels.
[9]Masterpieces that reference Egberto are the so-called Andreas-Tragaltar, a treasure chest, a reliquary, preserved today in the treasury of Trier Cathedral, the pastoral staff of st. Peter's, the other works of art preserved in the Cathedral Treasury of Limburg and the Codex aureus Epternacensis, an illuminated evangeliarium in a single volume, now preserved in the Germanic National Museum of Nuremberg.The laboratory performed works, also the custom of other princes.
[10]From letters received up to today, is that Gerbert of Aurillac, the future pope Sylvester II, as the secretary of the Adalberone of Reims, he wrote to Egbert.From this workshop came also the the Otto-Mathilden-Kreuz, a pectoral cross, and the Madonna of Gold, a statue of gold depicting Madonna with the child in her arms, which are in the Treasury of the Abbey of EssenAl Laboratory of Egbert I attributed the Backdrop of Berlin, a frame in gold, which is preserved today at the Museum of Arts and Crafts in Berlin, and the Cross of St. servaas church, a pectoral cross in gold with precious stones, today preserved in the Basilica of San Service, Maastricht, the netherlands however, the attribution of these two works wing Laboratory, Egbert is controversial.Because there are other works of the Laboratory were carried out after the death of Egbert, the research indicates, that the abbess of the Abbey of Essen, Matilda II in Essen, after the death of the archbishop he has led the laboratory in Essen, germany, where shortly after, with the enamels of the unfortunately lost the casket of Saint Marsus and the Great cross with the pendant, is proven the production of enamels.
