Fol. 2r of the Codex Egberti: The throne at the end of Egbert of Trier, Archbishop receives the Codex of the Reichenau monks Kerald and Heribert
Egbert of Trier, Egbert, count of Holland, (* um 950; † 8. December 993) was from 977 to 993, the Archbishop of Trier.Egberts parents count Dietrich II. of Holland and Hildegard of Flanders, daughter of count Arnulf I of Flanders. After his training in the monastery of Egmond, he was II. 976 Registrar of Otto This put him 977 as Archbishop of Trier, he should be secured in this office in the interests of the ottonian Empire. 983 participated in Egbert, on a day in Verona. 984, he joined Heinrich the Zänker, 985 threw himself back in the realm of violence.He is as a promoter of science and the arts. Under Egbert stock in Trier, probably in the monastery of St. Maximin is a very productive scriptorium, meanwhile, forces with the so-called master of the Registrum Gregorii one of the most outstanding Illuminators of the ottonian book painting was. In cooperation with the scriptorium of the Codex Egberti, a Gospel Lectionary, the Egbert to the Abbey of St. Paulin in Trier gave (the city library of Trier, Ms. 24) was built for Egbert by rich Auer book painter. For Egbert, the so-called Egbert-Psalter was made (Cividale, Museo Archeologico Nazionale, Cod. 136). According to Egbert, the so-called Egbert workshop is named as one of the most important goldsmith workshops of Otto is niche time and especially for your Emails is known. Major works are also known as the Egbert Shrine, called Andreas-Tragaltar in the Trier Cathedral Treasury, Peter staff, today, in the Limburg Cathedral Treasury, and the cover of the Codex aureus Epternacensis (today in the Germanic national Museum). From the Egbert workshop, which also worked on ordering other princes, from letters it is known that Gerbert of Aurillac as Secretary to Bishop Adalbero of Reims to Egbert wrote, the Emails, the Essen Otto-Mathilden-cross, and the Golden Madonna. More your the Berlin framework and the Servatius-cross can be attributed to, these two works are in dispute. Because there is no Work of the Egbert-created workshop to Egberts death, the research, the Essen Abbess Mathilde repeated according to Egberts death, the craftsmen to eat, where, a little later, with the Emails of the lost Marsus Shrine, and of the cross with the large Senkschmelzen an email production is undetectable. The Catholic student Association Egbert in the KV Trier is named after the Bishop, and relies on its role as a promoter of art and science.
